                                      INTRODUCTION
                              LETTER FROM THE CITY MANAGER

Honorable Mayor Marchand and City Council Members,

I am pleased to present to you, City staff, and our community the Biennial City of Livermore Budget for
Fiscal Years (FYs) 2025-26 and 2026-27. The FY 2025-27 budget document (the “Budget”) provides an
overview of City-wide revenue and expenditure projections, with a focus on the General Fund and
General Fund Reserves. The Budget reflects anticipated revenues from development expected to be
completed during the two-year period.
The City continues to be challenged by the rising costs of services and infrastructure but overall
remains financially healthy. The Budget carefully balances the need to address critical operational
requirements - including increasing employee wages to be competitive with comparable cities - while
continuing to appropriately fund the City’s long-term obligations, including capital assets, fleet and
information technology replacement needs, and retiree medical benefits (also known as Other Post
Employment Benefits or OPEB). Regarding capital assets, the Budget provides the resources
necessary to fund maintenance and repairs and replacement of the City’s critical infrastructure
including buildings (e.g. expanding and modernizing Fire Station 6; improving conditions of the Police
headquarters), sidewalks, walls, street trees, and stormwater improvements.
The Budget presents a prudent spending plan that maintains the current operational service levels to
support Livermore’s high quality of life. This document acknowledges the financial challenges
Livermore faces in the near and longer term but also celebrates prior year accomplishments. The
Budget continues to be a roadmap for progress toward implementing the City’s 2023-28 Five-Year
Strategic Plan, which is organized around the following five broad Community Pillars:
1. A Safe Community That Thrives: Support facilities, design programs, and ensure compliance with
   regulations that create a healthy, resilient, and engaged community that is prepared, safe, and
   housed.

2. Economy That Prospers: Encourage a thriving business environment that results in a strong,
   diverse, resilient economy and supports community prosperity.

3. Environmental Stewardship: Preserve and protect Livermore’s climate and environment for future
   generations and become a municipal leader in sustainability, reducing and drawing down
   greenhouse gas emissions, and encouraging sustainable development.

4. Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places: Create inclusive and inviting natural and built places and
   spaces for contemplation, play, arts, and connection while celebrating our history and encouraging
   community pride.

5. A City That Works: Foster an organization that is fiscally sustainable, innovative, effective, and
   efficient; provides excellent public services; invests in professional development and well-being of
   employees in alignment with the Community and Organizational Values; and responsibly invests in
   the City’s infrastructure.
For details, please refer to the Five-Year Strategic Plan on the City of Livermore website at:
Five-Year Strategic Plan




                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                    Page 1
