                                     INTRODUCTION
                                HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT

INTRODUCTION
This section consists of the Letter from the City Manager, which provides an overview of the FY 2025-
27 Budget. Also included are the GFOA Distinguished Budget Presentation Award and the resolution
adopting the Two-Year Budget.

ABOUT LIVERMORE
Includes a historical overview of the community, City highlights and accomplishments, mission
statement, organizational values, organization chart, map, and 5-year Strategic Plan. In addition, this
section describes the other major policy documents and preparation guidelines used in developing and
executing the Budget, including Significant Accounting Policies, Budget Policy, Debt Policy, and
Constitutional Spending Limits.

LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PLAN
The Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP) is a 5-year financial forecast of the General Fund. It is intended
to provide a frame of reference to help evaluate the City’s financial condition and help assess the long-
term financial implications of current and proposed budgets, programs, and assumptions.
BUDGET SUMMARY
This section provides financial summaries, including an overview of revenues, expenditures, and
transfers over the 2-year budget cycle, fund balance by major and non-major funds, long-term debt
information and budgeted debt service schedules. Sources and uses schedules are presented by fund
type, sources of revenues, as well as major category expenditures. Also included is the Capital
Improvement Program budget impact on the operating budget and a list of funds by department.
DEPARTMENT NARRATIVES
Presents the operating programs that form the City's basic organizational units:
   • Establish policies and goals that define the nature and level of services to be provided.
   • Identify activities performed in delivering program services.
   • Propose objectives for improving the delivery of service.
   • Identify the resources required to perform activities and accomplish objectives.
   • Identifies performance measures used to analyze outcomes of City services and progress
      towards implementing major goals and objectives.
REVENUES
This section provides combined and individual statements of revenues for each of the City's operating
funds. It includes financial and statistical information such as revenue estimates, assumptions, and
inter-fund transactions.
EXPENDITURES
Provides a summary of expenditures and expenditures by major expense category for each of the
City's operating funds.
FUND BALANCES
Provides combined statements of fund balance changes for each of the City's operating funds by year.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
Presents the City's Capital Improvement Program budget.



                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 15
