                                       INTRODUCTION
                               LETTER FROM THE CITY MANAGER

Sales Tax Concentration - Sales tax is currently the City’s second-largest revenue source, thanks in
part to the current popularity of the outlet mall and surrounding retail. It is important to be aware that the
City derives 30% of all sales tax revenue received from that geographic area which focuses on retailing
consumer goods. There are some concerns to monitor regarding this important source of revenue,
including the trend away from brick-and-mortar retail to internet shopping which has the potential to
undermine this revenue source. Consumer taste changes, as well as direct competition from similar
retail centers being planned within the region, also threaten to impact this critical revenue source.
Additionally, the outlet mall generates a significant portion of its business from international tourism,
placing at least a portion of the revenue at risk when international travel is suspended like it was during
the early phases of the pandemic.

CONCLUDING COMMENTS
The City continues to be on a steady financial course to achieve long-term financial sustainability. The
FY 2025-27 Budget includes funding for long-term obligations related to infrastructure, fleet, and
information technology. While General Fund reserves are currently fully funded, potential future
increased liabilities, deferred infrastructure, and deferred facility maintenance could temper the City’s
progress.

I appreciate the time and talents of the City staff throughout the organization, led by the Executive
Team, working together to develop this thoughtful spending plan. I wish to specifically acknowledge the
Finance Division for their perseverance and dedication in balancing the budget and preparing this
document. Last, but definitely not least, I wish to thank the City Council for their unwavering leadership,
and support of staff’s efforts to serve our community with professionalism, integrity, and kindness.

Respectfully submitted,



Marianna A. Burch
City Manager




                                         BUDGET FY 2025-27                                    Page 11
