                                     INTRODUCTION
                            KEY BUDGET CONCEPTS AND TERMS

Budget
Budgets are plans for how organizations use projected resources (revenues) for payment to perform
operations or provide services (expenditures) over a defined period. Budgets are prospective planning
tools and must balance revenues and expenditures within the defined period.

Fiscal Years
The key time period for the City is the fiscal year (FY). The City’s fiscal year begins on July 1st and
ends on June 30th of the following year. Fiscal years are generally expressed as follows: FY 2025-26
begins July 1, 2025, and ends June 30, 2026. Fiscal Years may also be divided into quarters or
monthly periods for reporting purposes. It is important to note that some grants awarded to the City may
or may not synchronize with the City’s fiscal year. These grants often follow a schedule based on the
granting agency’s fiscal period or other predetermined period as determined by the grant agreement.

Funds
Funds are groups of revenue and expenditure accounts that must be balanced individually and
separately. They function in the City's Budget like having separate bank accounts to track different
personal finances. The City’s Budget contains approximately 100 funds, the largest of which is the
General Fund. The General Fund is considered discretionary, because there are few restrictions on
how these resources may be allocated. All the other funds normally have restrictions on the types of
activities they support. These restrictions may be established by local ordinance, federal or state law, or
grant agreements.

Department & Organizational Structures
The City is organized into various departments as defined in Section 2.09.010 of the Livermore
Municipal Code. These departments are responsible for delivering the various external and internal
services of the City. Several departments were established by the City Council and generally include
the name “Office” in the title. These include the City Manager’s Office and the City Attorney’s Office.
Because departments are not funds, departmental revenue and expenditures may be recorded and
budgeted in one or more funds. Similarly, one fund may contain one or more departments' revenue and
expenditures.

The budget documents include three quasi-departments: The General Services (or Non-Departmental),
Transfers, and Capital Improvement Program. These three groups are distinguished from traditional
departments in that they do not have operational staff attributed to them. These groups are used to
record various inter-departmental projects and citywide costs, such as debt service or major
infrastructure projects.

Revenues
Revenues can be generally understood as the sources of income for the City and are divided into
several categories or fund types. Tax revenues are largely unrestricted and are allocated to the General
Fund. Grant revenues are restricted by the grant agreement and often require matching contributions
from other sources. Special revenues include voter-approved measures and are restricted for a specific
purpose. Revenues from fines and penalties are largely unrestricted and result from enforcement
activities. Based on best practices, one-time revenues (e.g., land sales) should not be used to support
ongoing expenditures. Fee and Service Charge revenues support many City functions. The rate
charged for fees and service charges is regulated by state law. Generally, fees may not exceed the
cost of providing a service. Fees are listed in the City’s Master Fee Schedule, which is approved


                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 19
