                                       INTRODUCTION
                             KEY BUDGET CONCEPTS AND TERMS

annually through a City Resolution, but can be modified at any time with City Council’s approval. The
current Master Fee Schedule can be found on the City’s website.

Revenues are budgeted and recorded into specific accounts. These accounts are aggregated for
reporting into categories such as property tax, license and permits, and charges for current services.

Operating Expenditures
Operating Expenditures reflect the costs associated with the provision of services and performance of
operations by the City. There are two major categories of expenditures: personnel expenditures, and
services and supplies expenditures. Personnel expenditures include the cost of paying City employees
to perform various functions and provide services to the public. These costs include salaries, overtime,
retirement, and healthcare costs. Services and Supplies expenditures include non-labor related costs
and are processed through the City’s contracting and purchasing systems and include items such as
contracts for services, supplies and materials, utilities, equipment purchases, and debt payments.
Expenditures are budgeted and recorded into many different accounts. These accounts are aggregated
for reporting purposes into broader categories that include wages and benefits, services and supplies,
or capital outlay.

Fund Transfers
In certain cases, monies may be transferred between City funds. For instance, General Fund revenues
are required to pay for principal and interest payment on the City’s long-term debt. Therefore, General
Fund transfers monies to Debt Service Funds. When a transfer occurs between funds, the “sending”
fund (where the transfer comes from) records an expenditure and the “receiving” fund (where the
transfer goes to) records revenue. This is to ensure that the overall budget remains balanced.

Budget Balancing
The term ‘balanced’ refers to when all projected revenues are equal to all projected expenditures in a
budget or forecast. If projected revenues exceed projected expenditures, then the budget or forecast is
said to have a projected surplus. If projected expenditures exceed projected revenues, then there is a
projected shortfall. By policy, the City Council must adopt a balanced budget.

A structural imbalance occurs when there is a difference between ongoing revenues and expenditures
where they do not match and balance. A budget that uses one-time revenues to pay for ongoing
expenditures may be balanced over the fiscal period but suffers from a structural imbalance: in this
case a structural shortfall. By contrast if ongoing revenues exceed ongoing expenditures, a budget may
have a structural surplus.

Fund Balances & Reserves
At the end of each fiscal year, each fund’s revenue collections are compared against incurred
expenditures. If expenditures exceed revenues, then that difference is reduced from the “fund balance.”
A negative fund balance occurs when cumulative fund expenditures exceed cumulative fund revenues.
By contrast, a positive fund balance exists when cumulative revenues exceed cumulative fund
expenditures. When revenues are more than expenditures, a surplus occurs, which is added to that
fund’s fund balance.
If a positive fund balance is restricted or earmarked in its usage, it is called ‘restricted’ or ‘reserved.’ For
example, the General Fund has a 30 percent reserve requirement for major emergencies and
unanticipated events. Therefore, the General Fund budget includes contribution to reserves which is
taken from the positive fund balance to fund the reserves. Other funds may have a positive fund

                                         BUDGET FY 2025-27                                      Page 20
