                                  ABOUT LIVERMORE
                                    COMMUNITY OVERVIEW

ABOUT LIVERMORE
Livermore is a general law city with a council-manager form of government and an estimated population
of approximately 86,000 residents. Award-winning wineries, farmlands, and ranches that mirror the
valley’s history surround Livermore. The City of Livermore encompasses 26 square miles and is the
easternmost city in the San Francisco Bay Area. Protected by the coastal mountain range, Livermore
Valley enjoys a mild, Mediterranean climate that promotes the pursuit of a healthy, relaxed lifestyle. In
2017, the Livermore City Council approved the Livermore Tarplant (Deinandra bacigalupii) as the City’s
official flower. The Tarplant, an endangered species, grows only in the dry, alkaline meadows and
grasslands of northern Livermore and produces small yellow flowers from June to October.




SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Livermore is the only city in the United States with two national laboratories: Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories-CA. The laboratories’ missions span several
national programs, including homeland security, combustion and renewable energy, water resources,
and biosciences. Research efforts include developing the pursuit of fusion energy, vehicles of the
future, decoding the human genome, and studying climate change. One such successful effort recently
occurred when on December 5, 2022, a team at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory’s National
Ignition Facility achieved fusion ignition, the first controlled fusion experiment in history to reach this
milestone.
Many exciting partnerships between the laboratories and the community developed over the years. The
Livermore Valley Open Campus allows science, business, and academic collaborations on advanced
manufacturing, cyber-security, and high-performance computing. The i-GATE Innovation Hub provides
R&D facilities for life sciences and deep tech startups through the Daybreak Labs incubator and a
supportive ecosystem of services and partners through the Startup Tri-Valley initiative. The City
celebrates Livermorium Day every May to commemorate Element 116 on the periodic table of
elements.
THE ARTS
The Livermore community supports a well-established, extensive, diverse collection of cultural arts
organizations. Music lovers enjoy the local symphony orchestra, opera company, or chamber
ensembles at the downtown Bankhead Theater, a 500-seat performing arts venue. Residents also
delight in ballet, modern, and other styles of dances, as well as comedic and dramatic plays or
musicals. The City appoints a Poet Laureate to express its commitment to the literary arts. The
Livermore Public Library hosts rotating exhibits of paintings and photographs. Colorful quilts hang from
trees during the well-renowned summer quilt festival at a local garden nursery, and tree sweaters adorn
downtown trunks in the fall.


                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                   Page 30
