                                  ABOUT LIVERMORE
                                    COMMUNITY OVERVIEW

VITICULTURE
Livermore Valley Wine Country is the oldest wine region in California. Less than an hour east of San
Francisco, Livermore Valley Wine Country’s picturesque canyons and ridges welcome locals and
visitors to the valley’s vineyards and tasting rooms, which are an integral part of Livermore’s quality of
life. The Livermore Valley area boasts over 50 wineries. In the 2023 San Francisco Chronicle Wine
Competition, the largest wine competition in North America, 174 medals were awarded to Livermore
wineries, with eight awarded Best of Class and another 20 winning Double Gold. Popular wine bars,
tasting rooms, and lovely wine stores also thrive in downtown Livermore.
DOWNTOWN
Livermore community members and visitors love the vibrant, family-friendly downtown for its numerous
restaurants, boutiques, cinemas, bars, The Bankhead Theater, and a variety of parks and open spaces,
including the beloved Lizzie Fountain, Stockmen’s Park, and Livermorium Plaza, which commemorates
the creation of the livermorium element by a team of scientists from Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory. Improvements continue in the heart of downtown with a new parking garage, restaurant
and retail spaces, and other desired community amenities.
SPORTS AND RECREATION
The collaboration between the City of Livermore and the Livermore Area Recreation and Park District
(LARPD) has resulted in more than 40 park venues encompassing nearly 2,000 acres, including
community parks, dog parks, trails, sports fields, and open space parks. LARPD offers preschool
classes, before-and-after-school programs, youth and adult sports, aquatics, senior services, recreation
classes, facility rentals, and special events. The 71,000-square-foot Robert Livermore Community
Center includes meeting and activity rooms, a full-size double gymnasium, a 400-seat banquet hall, and
two outdoor pools.
COMMUNITY EVENTS
The Livermore Rodeo and Parade and Downtown Street Fest are two long-running annual special
events. Residents enjoy the annual Downtown Halloween Carnival, Holiday Parade and Tree Lighting,
Fourth of July Celebration at the Livermore Municipal Airport, and weekly farmers markets. Livermore
also attracts popular events with regional, national, and international fans, including the Little League
Intermediate World Series and Livermore Valley Half Marathon.
TRANSPORTATION
Livermore is conveniently located near two major freeways, I-580 and I-680, and is close to the
metropolitan areas of San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose. In addition to its proximity to the San
Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose International Airports, the City of Livermore owns and operates the
Livermore Municipal Airport, which has operated for over 60 years as a vital general aviation reliever
airport, handling more than 180,000 operations annually. It supports jobs, reinvestment, and
emergency response while hosting over 400 tenants, businesses, and government agencies. With six
flight schools, it plays a key role in pilot training and strengthens the region’s aviation and business
sectors.
Livermore also contains two stops on the Altamont Commuter Express (ACE) rail system.




                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                   Page 31
