                       LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PLAN

LONG-TERM FINANCIAL PLAN

The City’s Long-Term Financial Plan (LTFP) creates a framework for allocating resources according to
the City’s established goals and objectives. The resources are formally allocated during the biennial
budget, and the LTFP is developed every two years as a foundation for the budget, both operating and
capital. The LTFP identifies the resources available over the course of five years, including any impacts
of new development, and prioritizes these resources to fund new positions, contractual services, and
capital projects to support the implementation of the Strategic Plan. The LTFP provides a high-level
financial framework for planning purposes.

The following is a description of the assumptions used to develop the LTFP and a summary of the key
findings and recommendations.

OVERVIEW OF FORECAST METHODOLOGY

The LTFP is based on the following assumptions:

  • Revenues are expected to increase overall by 6% in FY 2025-26 and increasing between 2% and
    4% annually thereafter, excluding revenues from new development. The following growth is
    projected for the two largest revenue categories:

        • Property Tax is projected to grow between 4% and 5% annually, exclusive of increases from
         new development.

        • Sales Tax is projected to increase by 2% annually.

  • Estimated tax revenues from future development are based on expected housing and commercial
    development to be completed in FYs 2025-26 through FY 2029-30. Examples of that development
    include the downtown development (new retail and restaurants), 1,929 new housing units in the
    Isabel Neighborhood Specific Plan, and new and expanded commercial land uses (Gillig office and
    Surface Mining Permit Warehouse).

  • Personnel Services are flat if there isn’t an MOU in place or increasing by the amounts agreed to
    in labor MOUs. The Reserve for Labor MOUs and Addition to Reserves category includes funding
    for salary and benefit increases for labor MOUs not yet completed.

  • CalPERS contributions reflect CalPERS costs based on the most recent actuarial reports for both
    normal cost and unfunded liability contributions.

  • Services and Supplies are increasing between 2% and 3% annually.

  • Capital Improvement budget allocations are funded based on funds available after covering
    operating expenses and operating reserves.

  • Debt Service for replacement Fire Station 6 starting in FY 2027-28.

  • Fully funding annual Workers Compensation obligations with operating revenues by FY 2029-30.




                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 55
