                                  ABOUT LIVERMORE
                 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND BUDGET POLICIES

The City’s basis of budgeting is the same as the basis of accounting used in the City’s audited financial
statements, the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.

For governmental funds, the budget is prepared on a modified accrual basis consistent with GAAP.
Enterprise and Internal Service Funds are budgeted on the accrual basis of accounting, except for capital
assets and long-term debt, which are budgeted on the modified accrual basis of accounting. Exceptions
to the modified accrual basis when budgets are prepared are: (a) Land held for investment is treated as
an expenditure when purchased, and proceeds from the disposition of this land are treated as revenue
when measurable and available; (b) Estimated changes to compensated absences and claim liabilities
are not budgeted (c) Transfers to (or from) fund balance designations, inter-fund loans and proprietary
debt activities are treated as budgetary resources (uses).


E. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN (CIP) BUDGET POLICY
The CIP budget is prepared every two years on the same cycle as the two-year operating budget. The
CIP budget is prepared as a separate stand-alone document detailing the capital improvement funds’
revenues, expenditures, and fund balances.

The first two years of the CIP are funded to coincide with the two-year operating budget. The CIP budget
is subject to supplemental appropriations throughout its term to provide flexibility to meet changing needs
and conditions. The fiscal impact of any financed capital improvements is shown as a debt service
commitment in the operating budget for the related enterprise or governmental fund.

The CIP is presented with a planning horizon of up to five years. Detailed data is used in the near term,
with more general data appearing in later years of the multi-year fiscal plan. The fiscal plan is used to
project the effect of capital outlays and debt service on the operating budget.

To help assure that the CIP is consistent with the long-term goals and objectives of the city, the CIP is
adopted to be consistent with the General Plan. As required by Government Code §65401, the Planning
Commission provides the determination as to consistency for major public works projects prior to the
adoption of the CIP by the City Council.


F. OPERATING RESERVE POLICY
General Fund. The City of Livermore is committed to the establishment of a minimum fund balance/net
position, which will help maintain the City’s creditworthiness, and provide funds for catastrophic events,
economic uncertainties, contingencies and cash flow requirements. It is the goal of the City to achieve
and maintain a combined minimum unrestricted (committed, assigned and unassigned) fund balance in
its General Fund equal to 30% of the current year’s budgeted operating expenditures and outgoing
transfers for debt service as listed below:
    • The City’s General Fund balance committed for Operating Reserve Stabilization is established at
        a minimum of 15% of the General Fund’s budgeted operating expenditures plus debt service
        transfers to be used in a catastrophic event, in a major emergency, or during periods of severe
        fiscal crisis as described in the Comprehensive Fund Balance Policy.
   •   The City’s General Fund Assigned for Economic Uncertainty Reserve is established at a minimum
       of 13.5% of the General Fund’s budgeted operating expenditures plus debt service transfers, to
       be used during times of severe economic distress such as protracted recessionary periods, State
       raids on local resources, or other impactful unforeseen events which greatly diminish the financial


                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                   Page 48
