                                     CITY COUNCIL


MISSION
The City of Livermore works to enhance the quality of life for Livermore community members by providing
safe, accessible public amenities, promoting economic vitality and innovation, and embracing
collaborative civic engagement. All while providing high-quality services in a courteous, responsive,
fiscally sound manner.


SERVICES PROVIDED
The City Council is the City’s legislative body consisting of four council members and a mayor. Council
members serve four-year terms, and the mayor serves a two-year term. The City Council implements
policy decisions through the enactment of ordinances and resolutions, encourages broad resident
participation and information sharing about City activities and issues, and balances community needs
with available resources.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

   •   Advocated for the Tri-Valley region in Washington, D.C. with fellow Tri-Valley mayors to
       promote regional and local projects and learn about funding opportunities directly from federal
       agencies and lawmakers. (Pillar – A City That Works)
   •   Continued progress on various Downtown developments, making progress on the L Street
       Parking Garage, Flagpole Plaza, and Blacksmith Square. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces &
       Places)
   •   Acquired nearly 300 acres for open space and conservation purposes. (Pillar – Environmental
       Stewardship)
   •   Provided direction on Preferred Land Use Scenario leading to completion of the Land Use Map
       milestone as part of the General Plan Update. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places)
   •   Engaged the Livermore community through various events, programs, and other outreach
       opportunities. (Pillar – A City That Works)

GOALS
   •   Work to implement the goals and objectives as identified in the 2023-28 Citywide Strategic Plan.
       (Pillars – All)
   •   Continue to advocate on behalf of the community’s interests, communicating with key
       lawmakers at the regional, state, and federal levels. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 3,
       Objective 1)
   •   Continue to collaborate with the cities of Dublin, Pleasanton, San Ramon, and the Town of
       Danville on legislative issues, projects, and initiatives that affect Tri-Valley residents and
       businesses, valuing regional leadership and problem-solving to maintain and improve quality of
       life. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 3, Objective 1)
   •   Continue to engage with the community and encourage public participation. (Pillar – A City That
       Works, Goal 1, Objective 1)
   •   Approve programs for the City’s physical, cultural, and socioeconomic development. (Pillars –
       All)




                                      BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 79
