          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

MISSION
The mission of the Community Development Department is to promote the community’s quality of life
and economic vitality through land use planning, public infrastructure design and construction,
protection of public health and safety related to development and transportation, elimination of blight,
development of affordable housing, and delivery of targeted human services to vulnerable families,
seniors, children, people without housing, and those with special needs.

SERVICES PROVIDED
The Community Development Department is comprised of four divisions: Building & Neighborhood
Preservation, Planning, Engineering, and Housing & Human Services. The department is responsible
for managing the City’s growth, infrastructure design and construction, protecting environmental/open
space, revitalizing downtown, historic preservation, building safety, accessibility and sustainability,
property management, neighborhood preservation, affordable housing, and providing funding and
oversight for targeted human services. The department also represents the City in a variety of regional
and state policy development efforts, including housing and transportation planning, building and fire
codes, and the Human Services Needs Assessment.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

   •   Completed over 2,958 plan reviews, issued 4,874 permits, performed over 23,553 related
       inspections, and handled 1,644 Neighborhood Preservation cases. (Pillar – A Safe Community
       that Thrives)
   •   Implemented electronic permit submissions, online payments, and electronic permit issuance for
       all residential permit types. (Pillar – A Safe Community That Thrives)
   •   Completed major final maps and improvement plans including Arroyo Vista, Cava West and
       East at North Canyons and Triad, Shea townhomes and apartments at North Canyons and
       Collier Canyon Road, Blacksmith Square, and SMP 40. (Pillar – A Safe Community That
       Thrives)
   •   Supported the grand opening and first year of providing services at the Vineyard Resource
       Center. Provided 110,000 meals and 6,775 shelter stays for 172 unhoused individuals, in
       addition to permanently housing 24 formerly homeless residents. (Pillar – A Safe Community
       That Thrives)
   •   Supported Satellite Senior Housing Associates (SAHA) and Interfaith Housing to complete
       financing for and begin construction on the first 79-unit phase of the Pacific Avenue Senior
       Apartments, which will provide affordable housing for seniors age 62+, including veterans.
       (Pillar – A Safe Community That Thrives)


GOALS
  • Continue to implement the Isabel Neighborhood Specific Plan. (Pillar – Economy That Prospers,
     Goal 4, Objectives 1-3)
  • Continue to implement the Downtown Specific Plan. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces &
     Places, Goal 3, Objectives 1-4)
  • Continue to complete the General Plan Update. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places,
     Goal 4, Objectives 1-4)
  • Implement web-based storybook pages with locations of major Capital Improvement Projects
     and Development Projects, links to web pages, and program pages for sidewalks, walls, ADA
     ramps, and street maintenance. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 14, Objective 2)
  • Complete Development Code Update. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 15, Objectives 1 and
     3).



                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                   Page 95
