                               LIBRARY DEPARTMENT


MISSION
The Livermore Public Library connects all people with information, education, and inspiring experiences
to support personal growth, enhance quality of life, and build community in Livermore.


SERVICES PROVIDED
The Livermore Public Library is a vital community education resource, supported by the General Fund
of the City of Livermore and valued by Livermore community members. The Library includes three
divisions: Youth Services, Adult/Public Services, and Technical Services. The Library currently provides
multiple points of service for the convenience of library users including the 56,000 square-foot Main
(Civic Center) Library and two branch libraries, one in the Rincon area of Livermore and another in
Springtown. All locations offer books and audiovisual materials, public computers, wireless internet
access, and study spaces. The Civic Center Library features a café, the Friends of the Livermore Public
Library bookstore, and community rooms available for public use. In addition to the many resources
available for checkout, the Livermore Public Library provides educational and cultural events and
classes, including a literacy tutoring program. The Library utilizes technology to provide additional
resources through the Digital Library, available online 24/7.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS
       •   Added over 36,000 new items to the Library’s collection for community use. (Pillar – A Safe
           Community That Thrives)
       •   Facilitated over 900,000 uses of the total collection, an 8.5% increase over the previous
           year. (Pillar – A Safe Community That Thrives)
       •   Offered 1,296 programs, both online and in person, with over 50,000 attendees. (Pillar –
           Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places)
       •   Hosted more than 320,000 visitors to Livermore libraries and fulfilled over 30,000
           information requests. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places)

GOALS
       •   Promote literacy in all its forms to help people fulfill their life goals and be more active and
           engaged community members. (Pillar – A Safe Community That Thrives, Goal 12,
           Objectives 1-4)
       •   Update observation technology at all Library locations. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces &
           Places, Goal 8, Objective 1)
       •   Affirm equity and inclusion by reflecting the diverse local community in services, programs,
           and staffing. (Pillar – Inclusive & Inviting Spaces & Places, Goal 9, Objectives 1-4)
       •   Coordinate across City departments, the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District,
           Livermore Area Recreation and Park District, and other community partners to develop and
           implement a broad youth in government framework. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 7,
           Objective 1)
       •   Engage the Livermore Youth Council to develop ideas for additional youth involvement.
           (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 7, Objective 2)
       •   Enhance workforce development services and support resources for adult patrons. (Pillar –
           Economy That Prospers, Goal 2, Objective 1




                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 109
