                        PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT

MISSION
The Mission of the Public Works Department is to provide responsive, timely and cost-effective
services. The Public Works Department is responsible for critical infrastructure and is dedicated to
enhancing the environment and contributing to the civic vitality and economic growth of the City.


SERVICES PROVIDED
The Public Works Department is comprised of two divisions: Maintenance and Water Resources. The
department also manages the City’s Environmental Services and Asset Management programs. Public
Works maintains the City’s streets, signs, traffic signals, streetlights and public landscaping. It is also
responsible for maintaining City facilities and vehicle and equipment fleet. Public Works oversees the
operation, maintenance, and periodic replacement of the City’s potable water system, sewer collection
system, storm drain system, wastewater treatment, and recycled water system. The department also
oversees and administers the franchise solid waste and recycling contract.


ACCOMPLISHMENTS

   •   Maintained over 350 acres of public landscape areas, 10,000 streetlights, 114 traffic signals,
       730 lane miles of asphalt street surfaces, 27 City facilities and over 400 vehicles and City-
       owned equipment. (Pillar – A City That Works)
   •   Piloted AI-Based Contamination Monitoring by launching a pilot program installing AI-enabled
       contamination monitoring cameras on two Livermore Sanitation organics collection trucks to
       improve waste sorting efficiency. (Pillar – Environmental Stewardship)
   •   Developed a cost-effective sidewalk repair strategy that has improved safety and accessibility.
       (Pillar – A City That Works)
   •   Issued 99 Wastewater Discharge Permits and four Groundwater Discharge Permits; distributed
       1.9 billion gallons of potable water; treated 2 billion gallons of wastewater and produced 805
       million gallons of recycled water; maintained 100% compliance with all Regional Water Quality
       Control Board reporting requirements and received state certification of the Laboratory for an
       additional year. (Pillar – A Safe Community That Thrives)


GOALS

   •   Provide essential preventative maintenance and repair services for the City’s landscape,
       streets, signals, facilities, and fleet as scheduled in an efficient, safe, environmentally sensitive
       and economical manner. (Pillar – A City That Works, Goal 14, Objective 3)
   •   Convert selected non-usable turf areas into low-water-use landscapes. (Pillar – Environmental
       Stewardship, Goal 1, Objective 13)
   •   Continue to protect public health and the environment by ensuring compliance with all
       applicable regulations for potable water, recycled water, wastewater, and stormwater. (Pillar – A
       Safe Community That Thrives, Goal 11, Objectives 1-4)
   •   Complete replacement of the WRD Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System. (Pillar – A
       City That Works, Goal 11, Objective 9)




                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 117
