                  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                            EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

years. Following a regularly scheduled preventative maintenance and rehabilitative maintenance
schedule on streets extends the useful life of the street. Depending on the frequency of preventative
maintenance, street life can be extended for decades.

Street Maintenance funding total $18.3 Million over FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 which is nearly 13% of
the total proposed CIP budget over this period. This ranks as the second highest funded program in FY
2025-2027. Major improvements over this period include completing the overlay of the Airway and First
Street overpasses, completing a slurry seal project, and street resurfacing project, reconstructing North
K Street, beginning repairs to the Bluebell Drive bridge over Altamont Creek, ADA access ramps, and
sidewalks repairs and replacement.

Street Maintenance projects identified FY 2027-30 include completing repairs to the Bluebell Drive bridge
at Altamont reek, completing other bridge rehabilitation across the city, repairing settlement on Murrieta
Road, designing electrical undergrounding on North L Street, and additional slurry seal, overlay, sidewalk
repair, and ADA Access ramp projects.

Projects within this category occur within the existing public right of way, are rehabilitative in nature, and
are consistent with the City’s Asset Management Program. Pavement Management Program, General
Plan, Strategic Plan, and Active Transportation Plan. The primary funding sources for this program
include roadway funds such as gas taxes, Measure B and BB funds, refuse vehicle impact fees, R&R
Infrastructure Reserves, vehicle registration fees, and grants.


Traffic Control

Traffic control projects in the 2025-30 CIP provide for the safe and efficient movement of vehicles,
bicycles, and pedestrians on the City’s street-network. Pedestrian safety improvements, traffic calming,
striping, crosswalks, traffic signals, street lighting, traffic signal controller upgrades, video detection
upgrades, traffic signal modifications and emergency vehicle preemption equipment are included in this
program.

Traffic Control funding total $9.2 in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 which represents a little over 6% of the
total proposed CIP budget over this period. In addition to annual projects for typical traffic safety projects
listed above, work in the two-year program includes adding streetlights along East Avenue, pedestrian
safety improvements at Isabel Ave. connector ramp to Stanley Blvd., and a new traffic signal at Portola
and Sedona,

Traffic Control projects identified in FY 2027-2030 include continued annual projects for pedestrian
safety, traffic calming, striping, crosswalks, traffic signals, and street lighting.

Projects are funded primarily with roadway funds such as gas taxes, Measure B and BB funds, refuse
vehicle impact fees, vehicle registration fees, and grants

Projects are consistent with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Active Transportation Plan,
Downtown Specific Plan and the City’s Asset Management Program. The implementation of these
projects will provide for a safer street system and will improve mobility within Livermore.

Trails and Bike

Projects in the Trails and Bike program will improve pedestrian and bicycle mobility and safety within
Livermore. These projects provide or enhance trail and bike connections leading to commercial centers,


                                         BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 211
