                 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

Commission Transportation Plan, Tri-Valley Transportation Commission Plan, and applicable state and
federal standards. The implementation of these projects will improve mobility within Livermore and the
Tri-Valley.

Wastewater

The City of Livermore operates a Water Reclamation Plant (WRP) and sewer collection system.
Wastewater is transported to the Water Reclamation Plan through sewer pipelines and three pump
stations. Wastewater is treated at the Water Reclamation Plant and discharged to the Livermore-Amador
Valley Water Management Agency export pipeline facilities that ultimately discharge to the San Francisco
Bay. Recycled water is produced at the Water Reclamation Plant which is used for irrigation and other
uses in the northwest portion of the City.

Wastewater projects in the 2023-28 CIP include a variety of projects to rehabilitate and enhance the
capacity of the City’s sewer collection and wastewater treatment systems.

Wastewater project funding total $31.2 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 which is over 22% of the
total expenditures for CIP projects in these two years. These are the largest appropriations for any of the
12 programs. Major projects over the two-year period include completing construction of the WRP UV
Treatment System Replacement, WRP Administration Building repairs, WRP Recycled Water Fill Station,
and the WRP SCADA Server & Network Upgrade. Work also includes beginning design on Phase 2 WRP
Primary & Secondary Treatment Improvements, the WRP Digester Heating Loop Replacement project,
and the WRP SCADA PLC Controls Upgrade projects and removing the WRP waste oil tank.

Wastewater projects identified FY 2027-2030 include completing construction of the Phase 2 WRP
Primary & Secondary Treatment Improvements, the WRP SCADA PLC Controls Upgrade, WRP Digester
Heating Loop Replacement, replacing additional aged sewer lines, and starting the design and
construction of WRP Maintenance Building and Tertiary Building Repairs and Airport Lift Station
Improvements.

The primary funding sources for wastewater collection and treatment systems are operating revenues
from the Sewer Enterprise Fund and the City’s sanitary sewer connection fees paid for by new
development. The expansion of the Water Reclamation Plant wastewater disposal capacity and the
upsizing of pipes to serve new development are funded primarily from the sanitary sewer connection fee.
Major maintenance and rehabilitation at the Water Reclamation Plant and in the existing collection system
are funded by operating revenues from the Sewer Enterprise Fund. Cost allocation between new
development and existing users for projects is specified in the City’s Wastewater Connection Fee Study.

Projects listed comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Sewer Master
Plan Update; Wastewater Connection Fee Study; Recycled Water Master Plan; Wastewater and Sewer
Collection Asset Management Plan; Water Reclamation Plant Master Plan and applicable state and
federal standards.

Water/Recycled Water

The City of Livermore is the water retailer in the northwest, northeast, and east portions of the city. The
central and southern parts of the city are served by a private water purveyor, the California Water Service
Company. The City of Livermore produces and distributes recycled water to the northwest section of the




                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 213
