                 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

transit routes, schools, parks, and residential areas. They also provide recreational opportunities for
Livermore citizens. Additionally, projects in this programmatic area fund rehabilitation of trail facilities.

Trails and Bike project funding total $10.6 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27. This represents nearly
8% of the total CIP appropriations during this period. Major trail connections are programmed during this
period including completing the gap in the South Livermore Valley trail T-10 west of Vallecitos Rd.,
extending the Arroyo Las Positas Trail T-6 to Springtown, extending the Arroyo Rd. Trail T-13 from
Wetmore to Sycamore Grove Park, and beginning construction on a pedestrian crossing over Isabel that
will complete a gap in the Arroyo Mocho Trail. The two-year program also includes designing and
constructing a bike boulevard north of East Ave. and permanent pedestrian safety improvements on East
Ave.

Trail and Bike projects identified FY 2027-2030 include completing construction of the Arroyo Rd. Trail
T-13 on Wetmore and the Isabel pedestrian crossing trail connection. Additional projects include
constructing a gap in the Arroyo Las Positas Trail T-6 behind Walmart, new and improved bike lanes on
Old First Street, Olivina, and Concannon, and repairs to the Arroyo Mocho Trail at Concannon.

Projects in this category are funded by park impact fees, traffic impact fees, roadway user fees, developer
deposits, and grants.

Projects are consistent with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Active Transportation Plan, Vision
Zero Plan, Climate Action Plan, and various specific plans.


Transportation Infrastructure

Transportation Infrastructure projects in the 2025-2030 CIP include a variety of projects to address
transportation mobility and capacity needs. These projects are needed to relieve traffic congestion, meet
the City’s adopted roadway level of service standards, meet air quality and energy efficiency standards,
and to ensure safe travel ways. These projects range from widening of existing roads to providing
additional lanes, construction of new roadway segments, to expansion and construction of freeway
interchanges.

Funding for Transportation Infrastructure projects total $7.0 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 and
represent nearly 5% of the total proposed CIP budget during this period. Major projects include
completing environmental studies and the design for the Vasco Road Interchange Project, overseeing
the design for the North Canyons Parkway/Dublin Boulevard Connection and Valley Link projects,
completing design and beginning construction on Vasco Road Widening between Garaventa Ranch Rd.
to north of Dalton Ave., and beginning the design for bridge replacement projects at Heather Lane and
Airway Blvd.

Transportation Infrastructure project identified in FY 2027-2030 include completing the design of a new
Vasco Rd. Interchange, completing Vasco Widening improvements, constructing North Canyons
Parkway improvements inside City limits as part of the Dublin Blvd. Connection Project, Stanley/Murrieta
intersection improvements, Jack London Blvd./Isabel intersection improvements, and replacing the
bridge at Heather Lane over the Arroyo Las Positas.

Projects in this category are primarily funded by traffic impact fees, TVTC Fees, local roadway user fees,
grants, and some storm drain connection fees for the bridge projects.

Projects listed herein comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan,
Downtown Specific Plan, Traffic Impact Fee Study, Climate Action Plan, Alameda County Transportation

                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 212
