                 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

Public Safety projects in the CIP are primarily funded by the General Fund, Facility Rehabilitation
Program fees, New Infrastructure and R&R Infrastructure Reserves, and asset seizures.

Projects listed herein comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Asset
Management Program, and the Tri-Valley Hazard Management Plan.

Storm Drain

The City maintains a storm water system that includes drainage pipes, pump stations, streams, culverts,
detention and treatment facilities, trash capture devices, and certain channel improvements. Zone 7 is
the Flood Control Agency for the Tri-Valley; however, they only own and operate 1/3 of the total stream
systems. The City owns and operates another 1/3, while the remaining 1/3 is under private ownership.
This program is chronically underfunded and unfunded mandates for water quality improvements
continue to be required by the state. A series of storms with large amounts of rain and high winds since
2017 have caused significant damage to infrastructure near the creeks. This program contains projects
to repair the damage.

Over $18 million or nearly 13% of the proposed CIP in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 cover Storm Drain
Program projects. This is the third highest funded program in the two-year period. Work during this period
includes the installation of trash capture devices to comply with Regional Water Board requirements. A
series of projects reduce the risk of flooding. These include installing a back-up drainage system for
Collier Canyon Creek, installing berms and walls along the Arroyo Las Positas north of the airport,
completing the design and obtaining permits for desilting of the Arroyo Las Positas north of the airport,
rerouting the storm drains in the Beeb’s Clubhouse parking lot, and removing silt in other creeks and
stabilizing banks. The two-year program also includes repairing the slope above Portola Ave east of
Cayetano Park.

Storm Drain projects in FY 2027-30 include completing the desilting of the Arroyo Las Positas north of
the airport, constructing a mitigation area near Altamont Creek, and continued creek desilting and bank
stabilization.

Funding for these projects primarily derives from the City’s storm water user fees, the impervious surface
development impact fee, R&R Infrastructure Reserves, and from FEMA and other grants.

Proposed Improvements are consistent with the City’s Storm Drain Master Plan, the 2010 Storm Drain
Connection Fee Study, Zone 7 Stream Management Master Plan, Tri-Valley Local Hazard Mitigation
Plan, and with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, and Storm Drain Asset Management Plan.


Street Maintenance

This program provides for the preservation of existing transportation and pedestrian infrastructure
throughout the City. Projects in this category include annual preventative maintenance such as slurry
seal and micro surfacing, rehabilitative street overlays, street reconstruction, annual sidewalk repair, ADA
access ramp installations, curb and gutter replacement, median rehabilitation, and miscellaneous street
infrastructure rehabilitation. Bike lane striping upgrades, such as converting standard bike lanes to
buffered bike lanes consistent with the Active Transportation Plan, are considered as streets are
resurfaced.

The cost of preventative maintenance on streets is approximately 10% of the cost of street replacement,
and the cost of rehabilitative maintenance is approximately 50% of the cost of street replacement. Without
a preventative maintenance and rehabilitative program, the useful life of streets is typically less than 15

                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 210
