                 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

Parks and Beautification Project funding total $14.4 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 and account
for approximately 10% of the total proposed CIP during this period. Funded projects include a new park
and 18-hole disc golf course in the Springtown Open Space, reimbursements to LARPD for eligible park
development impact fee-funded projects, Doolan Park Landscape Rehabilitation, Springtown Median
Improvements, Railroad and Stanley Median Improvements, and replacing deteriorated fences along the
Holmes Street gateway to the city.

Park and Beautification Projects identified during FY 2027-2030 include continued reimbursements for
LARPD expansion and enhancement projects, completing fence replacements on Holmes Street, and
beginning renovations at Hagemann Farms.

Projects are funded primarily through General Funds, park fees, and roadway user fees. Projects listed
herein comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Asset Management
Plans, Downtown Specific Plan, and the Park Facilities Fee Study.

Public Buildings

The City of Livermore owns and maintains 40 buildings at 20 different locations. Routine rehabilitation is
needed to extend the life of the buildings and replace aging equipment and components, reallocate
space, and comply with current codes and standards. Building expansion projects are intended to
accommodate current and future operational needs. Public safety building improvements are covered in
the Public Safety section. Improvements to buildings at the wastewater treatment plant are covered in
the Wastewater Program.

Funding for Public Building projects in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 total $9.8 million and represent
approximately 7% of the total funding during these two years. These appropriations cover designing the
expansion of the Fleet Shop at the Maintenance Service Center and beginning construction; designing
and beginning construction for a teen space at the Civic Center Library, installing electrical vehicle
chargers to serve over 100 spaces for fleet at five public facilities, and some additional minor projects.

Major projects identified for FY 2027-2030 include completing the Fleet Shop expansion and library teen
center, recoating the Civic Center Library and Maintenance Service Center, HVAC improvements at the
Civic Center Library and Maintenance Service Center, and upgrades to the Multi Service Center.

Rehabilitation projects are funded through Facilities Rehabilitation Program fees. New infrastructure is
funded primarily through General Funds and grant funds. Projects listed herein comply with the goals
and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Climate Action Plan and the City’s Asset
Management Program.


Public Safety

The goal of this programmatic area is to enhance public safety through improvements to Police
Department and Livermore/Pleasanton Fire Department facilities, equipment, and public safety systems.

Over $8 million, or roughly 5.6%, of the proposed CIP in FY 2025-2027 are for Public Safety
improvements. Program highlights include designing a new Fire Station 6, designing and beginning
renovations to the Police Building, and replacing the police department radios.

Public Safety projects identified for FY 2027-2030 include completing the new Fire Station 6 and Police
Building renovations and beginning the design for the Police Storage Facility and a new Fire Station 10.


                                       BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 209
