                 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS

will be adjusted when grants are awarded to replace city funding sources with grant funds. The CIP is a
blueprint for the future, but it is flexible enough for change as the City Council updates the CIP every two
years.

For government funds, the budget is prepared on a modified accrual basis consistent with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles. Enterprise and Internal service funds are budgeted on an accrual basis
of accounting, except for capital assets, which are budgeted on a modified accrual basis of accounting.
The City’s Debt, Accounting and Budget Policies are included in the Appendix of this budget document.

Program highlights are discussed in the following sections:

Airport

The City operates a general aviation airport located southwest of State Route 84, Airway Boulevard, and
I-580. The airport is operated as an independent enterprise fund. Airport projects in the 2025-2030 CIP
include projects to enhance airport safety and operations, rehabilitate existing facilities, and promote
innovation.

Funding in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 are for pavement maintenance and preliminary design of an
Aviation Innovation Center. Projects identified in FY 2027-30 include construction of the airfield safety
improvements outlined in the Airfield Geometry Study, and airport pavement maintenance. Funding for
airport projects is provided from airport operating revenues and Federal Aviation Administration grants.

Projects listed herein comply with the current Airport Layout Plan, and the City’s General Plan and
Strategic Plan.

Downtown Revitalization

Downtown Revitalization projects are intended to revitalize and enhance the downtown economically and
aesthetically through land acquisition, design and construction of public infrastructures including those
which support the Downtown Core Plan approved by City Council in January 2018.

Funding for Downtown Revitalization projects in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 total $9.6 million, which is
nearly 6.8% of the proposed budget during these two years. Projects include completing the L Street
Garage and Flagpole Plaza and remediation activities. Projects identified in Fiscal Years 2027-230
include replacing the bluestone with stamped concrete, associated ADA improvements, Veterans Park,
and completing remediation activities. Projects are funded primarily through bond funding, park fees,
General Funds, roadway user fees, and grants.

Projects included in this programmatic area are consistent with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan,
and Downtown Specific Plan.

Parks and Beautification

The objective of the Parks and Beautification program is to improve, renovate, and enhance existing City-
owned or maintained park areas, public spaces, roadways, walls, and medians. Although the Livermore
Area Recreation and Park District (LARPD) is the agency responsible for maintaining most of the parks
in Livermore, there are several City-owned properties as well as streetscapes that are constructed and
maintained by the City. Park projects in the downtown are covered in the Downtown Revitalization
Program.




                                        BUDGET FY 2025-27                                 Page 208
