                                            APPENDIX
                                       DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS

Financial activities for local government fall into three broad categories, governmental, proprietary, and
fiduciary fund categories. Governmental funds are used to account for activities primarily supported by
taxes, grants, and similar revenue sources. Proprietary funds are used to account for activities that
receive significant support from fees and charges and operate more like a business (utilities). Fiduciary
funds are used to account for resources that a government holds as a trustee or agent on behalf of an
outside party and that cannot be used to support the government’s own programs. Within each of the
three broad categories of funds, individual funds are further categorized by fund type.

GOVERNMENTAL FUND CATEGORY
Five fund types are used to account for governmental-type activities. These are the general fund,
special revenue funds, debt service funds, capital projects funds, and permanent funds. Funds in red
are CIP funds (capital improvement program funds).


GENERAL FUND:
The GENERAL FUND (F.100; F. 101, 811) is used to account for all the general revenues of the city
that are not specifically levied or collected for other city funds, and for the expenditures related to the
rendering of general services by the city. The general fund is used to account for all resources not
required to be accounted for in another fund. (Major Fund)


SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS / CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUNDS:
Special revenue funds are used to account for City revenues from sources that, by law or administrative
action, are designated to finance particular functions or activities of government.

The individual special revenue funds are as follows:

STREET PROJECTS FUNDS (F. 220, 240, 510, 511, 512, 551, 552, 553, 560, 561; F. 816, 817, 823,
824, 825, 829, 830, 833, 834, 835) Established to account for the construction and maintenance of city
streets. Financing is provided by the State gasoline taxes; Federal grants; State grants; Alameda
County Pass-Through funds, grants, and project specific funds; Local Vehicle Registration Fees;
Alameda County Measure B and BB; Tri-Valley Transportation Council Fees; and Bay Area Air Quality
Management District.

HOST COMMUNITY IMPACT FEE (F. 282; F. 820) Established to account for the collection of Host
Community Impact Fees from the Altamont and Vasco Road Landfills which are restricted for the use of
promoting the arts in Livermore.

CITY STREET SWEEPING (F. 283) Established to administer funds received through solid waste
collection fees.

DONATIONS (F. 330, 331; F. 822) Established to account for donations received by the Library and
Police Department for support of specific community programs.

HOUSING SUCCESSOR FUND (F. 201) Established to account for assets and liabilities assumed by
the City from the former Redevelopment Agency Low-Moderate Income Fund. Funds are used for low
and moderate income housing programs.

LOW INCOME HOUSING FUNDS (F. 200; F. 812) Established to account for the receipt and
disbursement of in lieu housing fees collected from developers and other community housing projects.
(Major Fund)


                                         BUDGET FY 2025-27                                  Page 254
