                                                                                     CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                          Executive Summary and Analysis


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY & ANALYSIS
As required by state law, the Planning Commission reviews the CIP for consistency with the City’s General Plan.
This CIP is a planning tool for the City Council and should be used to set capital priorities over the next several
years. Grant funding will continue to be pursued for future projects. Project budgets will be adjusted when grants
are awarded to replace City funding sources with grant funds. The CIP is a blueprint for the future, but it is flexible
enough for change as the City Council updates the CIP every two years.

For government funds, the budget is prepared on a modified accrual basis consistent with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles. Enterprise and Internal Service Funds are budgeted on an accrual basis of accounting,
except for capital assets, which are budgeted on a modified accrual basis of accounting. The City’s debt,
accounting and budget policies are included in the Appendix of this budget document.

Program highlights are discussed in the following sections:

Airport

The City operates a general aviation airport located southwest of State Route 84, Airway Boulevard, and I-580. The
airport is operated as an independent enterprise. Airport projects in the 2025-2030 CIP include projects to
enhance airport safety and operations, rehabilitate existing facilities, and promote innovation.

Funding in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 are for pavement maintenance and preliminary design of an Aviation
Innovation Center. Projects identified in FY 2027-30 include construction of the airfield safety improvements
outlined in the Airfield Geometry Study and airport pavement maintenance. Funding for airport projects is
provided by airport operating revenues and Federal Aviation Administration grants.

Projects listed herein comply with the current Airport Layout Plan, the City’s General Plan and Strategic Plan.

Downtown Revitalization

Downtown Revitalization projects are intended to revitalize and enhance the downtown economically and
aesthetically through land acquisition, design, and construction of public infrastructures including those which
support the Downtown Core Plan approved by City Council in January 2018.

Funding for Downtown Revitalization projects in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 total $9.6 million, which is nearly 6.8%
of the proposed budget during these two years. Projects include completing the L Street Garage, Flagpole Plaza
and remediation activities. Projects identified in FY 2027-2030 include replacing the bluestone with stamped
concrete, associated ADA improvements, construction of Veterans Park, and completing remediation activities.
Projects are funded primarily through bond funding, Park Fees, General Funds, Roadway User Fees, and grants.

Projects included in this programmatic area are consistent with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, and
Downtown Specific Plan.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                             2
