                                                                                     CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                         Executive Summary and Analysis


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY & ANALYSIS
Traffic Control

Traffic control projects in the 2025-30 CIP provide for the safe and efficient movement of vehicles, bicycles, and
pedestrians on the City’s street-network. Pedestrian safety improvements, traffic calming, striping, crosswalks,
traffic signals, street lighting, traffic signal controller upgrades, video detection upgrades, traffic signal
modifications and emergency vehicle preemption equipment are included in this program.

Traffic Control funding total $9.2 in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 which represents a little over 6% of the total
proposed CIP budget over this period. In addition to annual projects for typical traffic safety projects listed above,
work in the two-year program includes adding streetlights along East Avenue, pedestrian safety improvements at
the Isabel Avenue connector ramp to Stanley Boulevard, and a new traffic signal at Portola Avenue and Sedona
Commons.

Traffic Control projects identified in FY 2027-2030 include continued annual projects for pedestrian safety, traffic
calming measures, striping, crosswalks, traffic signals, and street lighting.

Projects are funded primarily with roadway funds such as Gas Taxes, Measure B and BB Funds, Refuse Vehicle
Impact Fees, Vehicle Registration Fees, and grants

Projects are consistent with the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Active Transportation Plan, Downtown Specific
Plan and the City’s Asset Management Program. Implementation of these projects will provide for a safer street
system and will improve mobility within Livermore.

Trails and Bike

Projects in the Trails and Bike program will improve pedestrian and bicycle mobility and safety within Livermore.
These projects provide or enhance trail and bike connections leading to commercial centers, transit routes,
schools, parks, and residential areas. They also provide recreational opportunities for Livermore citizens.
Additionally, projects in this programmatic area fund rehabilitation of trail facilities.

Trails and Bike project funding total $10.6 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27. This represents nearly 8% of the
total CIP funding during this period. Major trail connections are programmed during this period including
completing the gap in the South Livermore Valley Trail T-10 west of Vallecitos Road, extending the Arroyo Las
Positas Trail T-6 to Springtown Boulevard, extending the Arroyo Road Trail T-13 from Wetmore Road to Sycamore
Grove Park, and beginning construction on a pedestrian crossing over Isabel Avenue that will complete a gap in the
Arroyo Mocho Trail. The two-year program also includes designing and constructing a bike boulevard north of East
Avenue and permanent pedestrian safety improvements on East Avenue.

Trail and Bike projects identified FY 2027-2030 include completing construction of the Arroyo Road Trail T-13 on
Wetmore Road and the Isabel Avenue pedestrian crossing trail connection. Additional projects include
constructing a gap in the Arroyo Las Positas Trail T-6 behind Walmart, new and improved bike lanes on Old First
Street, Olivina Avenue, and Concannon Boulevard, and repairs to the Arroyo Mocho Trail at Concannon Boulevard.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                               6
