                                                                                  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                             How to Use the Capital Improvement Plan



 HOW TO USE THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
 What is the Capital Improvement Plan?
The Capital Improvement Program (CIP) is a fiscal and planning tool which identifies capital improvement projects,
provides a schedule for the projects, and identifies funding sources and financing options. Capital Improvement
Projects may include:

    construction, maintenance, and improvements to public facilities including infrastructure,
    acquisition of land,
    and major equipment purchases.

The CIP Budget presents a schedule of major public facility improvements which will be implemented over the
next 20 years. Specific appropriations are made for the current two-year budget cycle while annual planning is
detailed for a five-year period. Long-range plans in “out-years” are included for reference.

A number of considerations are applied when identifying the projects of the current CIP Budget, including:

    Consistency with the General Plan
    Consistency with City Council adopted master plans
    Consistency with the City’s Strategic Plan
    Consistency with other formal long-range plans adopted by Council
    Recommendations of the Council and Commissions
    Input from residents and business owners
    Federal, state, or other legal mandates
    Potential impact to the operating budget
    Benefit to the community
    The need to mitigate health or safety issues


  What Information Can I Find in this CIP?
The Capital Improvement Plan is made up of 6 distinct sections.

The preface, or the initial section of the CIP contains:

    Table of Contents
    Executive Summary
        Provides information on resources and expenditures for projects funded in the current two-year budget
        cycle as well annual planning for a five-year period. Long-range plans in “out-years” are included for
        reference. Text, tables and graphics are also included to display resources, project costs, and other
        information.




                                    FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                        14
