                                                                                   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                        Executive Summary and Analysis


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY & ANALYSIS
Wastewater projects in the 2023-28 CIP include a variety of projects to rehabilitate and enhance the capacity of
the City’s sewer collection and wastewater treatment systems.

Wastewater project funding total $31.2 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27 which is over 22% of the total
expenditures for CIP projects in these two years. These are the largest appropriations for any of the 12 programs.
Major projects over the two-year period include completing construction of the WRP UV Treatment System
Replacement, WRP Administration Building repairs, WRP Recycled Water Fill Station, and the WRP SCADA Server &
Network Upgrade. Work also includes beginning design on Phase 2 WRP Primary & Secondary Treatment
Improvements, the WRP Digester Heating Loop Replacement project, and the WRP SCADA PLC Controls Upgrade
projects and removing the WRP waste oil tank.

Wastewater projects identified for FY 2027-2030 include completing construction of the Phase 2 WRP Primary and
Secondary Treatment Improvements, the WRP SCADA PLC Controls Upgrade, WRP Digester Heating Loop
Replacement, replacing additional aged sewer lines, and starting the design and construction of WRP Maintenance
Building, Tertiary Building Repairs and Airport Lift Station Improvements.

The primary funding sources for wastewater collection and treatment systems are operating revenues from the
Sewer Enterprise Fund and the City’s Sanitary Sewer Connection Fees paid for by new development. The
expansion of the Water Reclamation Plant wastewater disposal capacity and the upsizing of pipes to serve new
development are funded primarily from the Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee. Major maintenance and rehabilitation
at the Water Reclamation Plant and in the existing collection system are funded by operating revenues from the
Sewer Enterprise Fund. Cost allocation between new development and existing users for projects is specified in
the City’s Wastewater Connection Fee Study.

Projects listed comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Strategic Plan, Sewer Master Plan
Update, Wastewater Connection Fee Study, Recycled Water Master Plan, Wastewater and Sewer Collection Asset
Management Plan, Water Reclamation Plant Master Plan, and applicable state and federal standards.

Water/Recycled Water

The City of Livermore is the water retailer in the northwest, northeast, and east portions of the City. The central
and southern parts of the City are served by a private water purveyor, the California Water Service Company. The
City of Livermore produces and distributes recycled water to the northwest section of the City, to eastern
Pleasanton—including East Bay Regional Parks, Shadow Cliffs, along Stanley Boulevard for roadway landscaping
and along West Jack London Boulevard for eastern Pleasanton.

Funding for Water projects total $5.2 million in FY 2025-26 and FY 2026-27. This represents 3.6% of the total CIP
budget for this period. Funding is primarily for constructing improvements to the Airway Pump Station. Recoating
the Altamont Tank is identified in FY 2027-2030.




                                  FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                            9
