                                                                                  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                                           Storm Drain




           STORM DRAIN - INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS
The City maintains a storm drainage pipe system with pipes, pump stations, detention and treatment facilities,
and trash capture devices as well as a flood control system including streams, culverts, detention and retention
facilities and certain channel improvements. Zone 7 is the Flood Control Agency for the Tri-Valley; however, they
only own and operate 1/3 of the total stream systems. The City owns and operates another 1/3 while the
remaining 1/3 is under private ownership. One of the goals of this program is to improve City-owned creeks to
100-year flood protection and have Zone 7 can take over these facilities for maintenance once they are improved.

City storm drain projects may address existing drainage problems, maintenance work along the arroyos, and storm
drain transmission facilities needed by new development. Projects are also required to meet new requirements in
the City’s Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit such as trash capture devices in the storm drain system and
replacing traditional storm drain systems with bio retention ditches, basins, and other green infrastructure
infiltration systems. After major storms, projects are required to repair damage to creeks and other storm
drainage system infrastructure. There are also projects to proactively reduce flood risk. Regulatory agencies
require the City to construct riparian habitat to offset the impacts associated with construction in the creeks and
other sensitive habitat. Projects associated with constructing mitigation areas are covered in this section.

Stormwater user fees fund projects that fix existing deficiencies. Storm Drain Connection Fees fund projects
required to improve the system due to increased flows from new development. The City is pursuing additional
grant funds for Storm System projects. FEMA funding has been obtained to repair storm damage and FEMA grants
have been obtained to construct some projects that reduce the risk of future flooding. - Check

Proposed improvements are consistent with the City’s Storm Drain Master Plan, Asset Management Program, and
General Plan, and the Tri Valley Hazard Mitigation Plan.
                                                                               Want to learn more about current
                                                                               Storm Drain projects in real time?

                                                                                Scan the QR code to the right to
                                                                                check out the City’s Storm Drain
                                                                                       projects webpage!




                                  FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                            70
