                                                                                  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                                           Wastewater




           WASTEWATER - INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS
The City of Livermore operates a sewer collection system that conveys sewage across the entire City to the Water
Reclamation Plant at the western end of City. The collection system contains three sewer lift stations in areas
where gravity flow is not possible to the Water Reclamation Plant. Sewage is treated at the Water Reclamation
Plant. Effluent from the Water Reclamation Plant is discharged to the LAVWMA system where it is pumped over
hills to the west and discharged in the bay. A portion of wastewater at the Water Reclamation Plant is treated
further to produce recycled water which is used for irrigation and other non-potable applications in the northwest
portion of the City.

Wastewater projects include replacing, upsizing, or extending sewer lines, improvements at the sewer lift stations,
rehabilitation and process improvements at the plant, building upgrades at the plant, and modifications to the
computer systems that monitor the facilities.

The primary funding sources for wastewater collection and treatment systems are operating revenues from the
Sewer Enterprise Fund and sanitary sewer connection fees paid by new development. The expansion of the Water
Reclamation Plant wastewater disposal capacity and the upsizing of pipes to serve new development are funded
primarily from the sanitary sewer connection fee. Major maintenance and repairs at the Water Reclamation Plant
and in the existing collection system are funded by operating revenues from the Sewer Enterprise Fund. Cost
allocation between new development and existing users for projects is specified in the City’s Wastewater
Connection Fee Study.

Projects listed comply with the goals and policies of the City’s General Plan, Downtown Specific Plan, Sewer
Master Plan, Wastewater User Fee Study, Wastewater Connection Fee Study, Recycled Water Master Plan,
Wastewater Asset Management Plan, Water Reclamation Plant Master Plan, and applicable state and federal
standards.

                                                                            Want to learn more about current
                                                                            Wastewater projects in real time?

                                                                         Scan the QR code below to check out the
                                                                           City’s Wastewater projects webpage!




                                  FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                         167
