                                                                                    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                          Significant Accounting Policies



• Special Revenue Funds account for the proceeds of specific revenue sources (other than expendable trusts or
capital projects) that are restricted by law or
administrative action to expenditures for specified purposes.
• Debt Service Funds account for the accumulation of resources for, and the payment of, long-term debt principal,
interest and related costs.
• Capital Project Funds account for the acquisition and construction of major capital facilities not financed by
Proprietary Funds.
• Permanent Fund is used to report resources that are legally restricted to the extent that only earnings, not
principal, may be used for purposes that support the
government’s programs.

2. Proprietary Funds
• Enterprise Funds account for operations in a manner similar to private business enterprises where the intent is
for the costs (expenses, including depreciation) of
providing goods or services to the general public on a continuing basis to be financed or recovered primarily
through user charges.
• Internal Service Funds account for the financing of goods or services provided by one department or agency to
other departments or agencies of the City or to other
governmental units, on a cost-reimbursement basis.

3. Fiduciary Funds
• Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency Private Purpose Trust Fund: This fund is governed by the
Oversight Board of the Livermore Successor Agency
(not City Council). It accounts for the activities of the Livermore Successor Agency acting on behalf of the former
redevelopment agency.
• Agency Funds (Custodial Funds) are established to account for assets held by the City as an agent for special
assessment districts, Livermore Pleasanton Fire
Department, and pass through fees to other organizations.

D. OPERATING BUDGET POLICY
The City adopts a biennial operating budget on or before June 30th for each of the ensuing two fiscal years for all
funds except the Fiduciary Funds and the Developer Deposits Capital Projects Fund. The operating budget takes
the form of a two-year financial plan, which is adopted in its entirety by the City Council by resolution. A mid-
period review is conducted in the second year of the cycle and appropriations are adjusted accordingly. The fiscal
year begins on July 1 and ends on June 30 of the following year. Because Livermore is a general law city, it is not
subject to a budgetary process prescribed by statute or charter. The operating budget is prepared on a program
basis. The budget is considered balanced when the sum of estimated net revenues and appropriated fund
balances is equal to appropriations.

The operating budget is subject to supplemental appropriations throughout its term in order to provide flexibility
to meet changing needs and conditions. A resolution approving a supplemental appropriation is necessary when
expenses exceed the originally approved total appropriations for that fund. Budget adjustments within the same
fund may be approved by the City Manager.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                         310
