                                                                                    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                           Significant Accounting Policies



• The City will strive to maintain a minimum unassigned fund balance in its General Fund of 1.5% of the budgeted
operating expenditures and outgoing debt service transfers. This minimum fund balance is to protect against cash
flow shortfalls related to timing of projected revenue receipts and to maintain budgeted level of services.
In case, the unassigned fund balance in the General Fund exceeds 20% of the budgeted expenditures and outgoing
debt service transfers, the City will consider using the excess fund balance for (a) pay down long term obligations,
(b) capital projects and equipment, (c) one-time expenditures which will not require additional recurring
expenditures, and/or (d) to reduce the taxes and fees, and shall be determined in conjunction with the annual
budget process.

Enterprise Funds. The minimum fund balance/ net position requirement for the Enterprise Funds are set at
different levels due to the considerations for working capital, debt coverage, asset replacement, rate smoothing,
and revenue volatility. Enterprise Funds should strive to maintain an adequate rate and/or fee structure to cover
the costs of all operations, including maintenance, depreciation, capital and debt service requirements, reserves,
and any other cost deemed necessary.

(i) Airport Fund (Fund 210) will strive to achieve and maintain a minimum unrestricted net position balance of
12.5% (or 45 days’ worth of working capital) of its current year’s operating expenses plus debt service
requirements, since this fund has a steady and uniform cash inflow throughout the fiscal year generated by daily
or monthly fees collected from the customers.
(ii) Stormwater Enterprise Fund (Fund 220) requires a partial subsidy from the General Fund due to the increased
Stormwater Regulations and compliance requirements that are currently unfunded. Therefore, no specific
minimum net position balance is required for the Stormwater Enterprise Fund.
(iii) Sewer Enterprise Fund (Fund 230) collects most of its fees on the Alameda County tax rolls. The County
generally apportions its first installment of the fiscal year to entities only in December therefore, this enterprise
fund will strive to achieve and maintain 50% of its current year’s operating expenses as a minimum unrestricted
net position balance to ensure that sufficient resources are available to meet its operating expenses and current
obligations between property tax settlements.
(iv) Water Enterprise Fund (Fund 250) will strive to achieve and maintain a minimum unrestricted net position
balance of 33% (or 120 days’ worth of working capital) of its current year’s operating expenses plus debt service
requirements, since this fund has a relatively steady and uniform cash inflow throughout the fiscal year generated
by monthly charges collected from the customers.
(v) Sewer Replacement Fund (Fund 239) and Water Replacement Fund (Fund 259) should have a minimum
unrestricted net position equal to twice the depreciation expense for the current year. Unrestricted net position
exceeding 5-years of planned average annual asset replacement expenditure of $44 million for the Sewer
Replacement Fund and $27 million for the Water Replacement Fund will be addressed through the rate study
process.
(vi) LAVWMA Fund (Fund 242) will strive to maintain a minimum unrestricted net position equal to 50% of its
annual operating expense. In case unrestricted net position exceeds 200% of annual operating expense, the
overage will be addressed in conjunction with the annual operating budget process and next scheduled rate study
process.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                          312
