                                                                                    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                                        Glossary of Terms


                                       GLOSSARY OF TERMS
ACCRUAL BASIS
A basis of accounting in which transactions are recognized at the time they are incurred, as opposed to when cash
is received or spent.

AGENCY FUNDS
Agency funds are used to account for assets held by the City acting in a fiduciary capacity for other entities. The
City serves as the agent between bondholders and the assessed taxpayer.

APPROPRIATION
A legal authorization granted by the City Council to make expenditures and to incur obligations for specific
purposes. For operating fund budgets, these appropriations lapse at the end of each fiscal biennium. For
nonoperating/special fund budgets, such as the Capital Improvement Program funds, appropriations do not lapse
but continue in force until fully expended or until the purpose for which they were granted has been
accomplished, abandoned, or revised by the City Council.

ASSESSMENT DISTRICT
A funding mechanism for constructing public infrastructure. The City sells bonds to finance a specific list of capital
improvements that benefit specific properties within a City determined district. Bond financing costs are repaid
through assessments placed on properties receiving benefit from the financed improvements within the boundary
of the assessment district. Assessments are secured through the existence of liens placed on the properties within
the assessment district.

BUDGET
A financial operating plan for a given period which displays the estimated expenditures to provide services or to
accomplish a purpose during that period together with the estimated sources of revenue (income) to pay for those
expenditures. Once the fund totals shown in the budget are appropriated by the City Council, they become
maximum spending limits.

CAPITAL PROJECT
Major construction, acquisition, or renovation activities that add value to a government’s physical assets or
significantly increases the useful life.

CERTIFICATES OF PARTICIPATION (COPs)
Certificates of Participation are a form of tax-exempt municipal financing. Certificates of Participation (COPs) may
be sold to finance equipment and/or facilities as long as the useful economic life of each class of property exceeds
the term of the COPs payment schedule.

CIP
The acronym “CIP” stands for Capital Improvement Program. It is a 20- year plan of capital improvements
approved by the City Council on a biennial basis. This plan also shows projected expenditures for an additional 3-
year period for planning purposes, as well as “out years” although appropriations are only made for the first 2-year
period. This plan is a blueprint that City staff can follow in implementation of the listed projects. The following 3-
year period serves as a detailed foundation for planning the subsequent capital improvement budget.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                          314
