                                                                                   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                                      Glossary of Terms



MEASURE B and MEASURE BB
Ballot measure approved by Alameda County voters and subsequently renewed for 20 years by the voters in 2000.
In November of 2014, Alameda County voters approved Measure BB, which will generate nearly $8 Billion dollars
over 30 years for transportation projects in every city in Alameda County. The Alameda County Transportation
Commission (ACTC) administers both Measure B and Measure BB. Funding for the program is provided by local
sales tax. Funding is provided for both voter approved major projects, as well as discretionary street and trail
construction and maintenance funding distributed to the public agencies of Alameda County.

OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE COSTS (O&M)
The maintenance and operation costs for all new infrastructure in the CIP are shown on the various CIP
worksheets whenever the project is adding new infrastructure to the City. The maintenance and operation cost
assumptions are shown under the total funding on the
CIP worksheet.

PROPOSITION 1B
Refers to the $20 billion bond measure approved by California voters on November 7, 2006, of which $4.5 billion
was allocated to projects statewide via a competitive process known as the Corridor Mobility Improvement
Account (CMIA). The San Francisco Bay Area received $1.3 billion of the CMIA Program for 18 projects one of
which is the Isabel Interchange. The Isabel Interchange was allocated $68 million of the CMIA Program as part of
the competitive process.

PROJECT COSTS
The project costs (capital costs) are an estimate of the resources required to complete the capital project as
described on the project description page. Costs typically include preliminary design, environmental clearance,
final design, right-of-way acquisition, construction, contingencies, inspection, and contract administration. Many
of the project costs shown in the CIP are preliminary in nature since no significant engineering or environmental
evaluation has been done which would allow for more specific estimates to be produced. Most cost estimates are
produced using rule-of-thumb approximations as opposed to specific lists of materials.

PROJECT SCHEDULES
Detailed project schedules are prepared by the various project managers using Gant Charts. This includes key
milestone dates for environmental clearance, right of way acquisition, design and construction.

PROJECT STUDY REPORT
A planning document for State infrastructure used by and approved by Caltrans. The first step in completing
improvements to or construction of State infrastructure is the Project Study Report, which identifies project
alternatives and costs.

REVENUE
Sources of income received during a fiscal year, operating transfers from other funds, and other financing sources
such as the proceeds derived from the sale of fixed assets.




                                  FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                         317
