                                                                                    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
                                                                                                       Glossary of Terms



TIF
TIF is the City’s Traffic Impact Fee Program. This program funds the construction for over $250 million in major
transportation infrastructure over the next 20 years. Revenue is generated by new development paying the TIF fee.
Costs are allocated to new development based on a nexus study in compliance with the State Mitigation Fee Act
(AB 1600). Projects include major streets, Interstate 580 interchanges, and High Occupancy Vehicle Lanes (HOV) on
Interstate 580. Some facilities in this program are constructed by new development, with offsetting TIF fee credits
and reimbursements being provided to developers.

TVTC
The Tri-Valley Transportation Council is a joint powers authority of the cities of Livermore, Pleasanton, Dublin, San
Ramon, Danville, and the counties of Contra Costa and Alameda. The TVTC has identified important subregional
transportation improvements. A subregional development impact fee, the Tri-Valley Transportation Development
Fee has been established by the TVTC to provide “seed” money for major subregional transportation
improvements.

USER CHARGES
User charges are the payment of a fee for direct receipt of a public service by the party who benefits from the
service.

ZONE 1
A water pressure zone of the City water distribution system on the west side of Livermore. This zone serves the
lowest elevations in Livermore. It is one of three water pressure zones in the City of Livermore’s water system.

ZONE 2
The middle pressure zone of the City water distribution system in the northern parts of Livermore. This zone
primarily serves the Springtown area and adjacent areas. It is one of three water pressure zones in the City of
Livermore’s water system.

ZONE 3
The highest-pressure zone of the City water distribution system in the eastern parts of Livermore. This zone
primarily serves areas east of Vasco Road. It is one of three water pressure zones in the City of Livermore’s water
system.

ZONE 7
The Alameda County Flood Control and Water Conservation Agency. Zone 7 is a dependent special district
affiliated with Alameda County that is the water wholesaler and flood control agency in the Livermore Valley. Zone
7 operates a number of improved flood control channels in the Valley and has long-range plans for owning and
maintaining major flood control facilities in the Valley.




                                   FY 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN                                          319
