                                                                                           City of Livermore
                                                                                            Letter of Transmittal
                                                                                                   June 30, 2025


•   Isabel Crossing. Approval of the Isabel Crossing project, the largest single project to date in the Isabel
    Neighborhood Specific Plan. The project would develop the vacant 45-acre site at the southwest corner of
    Isabel Avenue and Portola Avenue with a master-planned community offering a range of housing options
    with 1,299 dwelling units, including duplexes, triplexes, flat condominiums, apartments, and three-story
    townhomes, approximately 75,000 square feet of office and commercial uses, a main street with public
    plazas, a new neighborhood park, private recreation center and pool, public trails, bike paths, bike lanes,
    and a public art program.
•   Portola Townhomes. Approval of three residential buildings totaling 31 three-story townhouse style
    condominiums. The project includes six affordable units and four accessible units, a Class 2b bike lane, and
    related landscaping, parking, stormwater, and frontage improvements.
•   Open Space Acquisition. In 2024, the City acquired four properties, totaling approximately 330 acres of
    open space land for permanent preservation and conservation. All the properties have significant biological,
    scenic, and recreational value. The City periodically acquires open space land from willing sellers on the
    open market to protect and/or enhance the natural resources and attributes of the properties.
•   Cornerstone Residential. Approval of the Cornerstone residential development located at the northwest
    corner of the Collier Canyon Road and Constitution Drive intersection. The project provides 253 residential
    units, including 143 for-sale townhomes in 21 buildings and 110 affordable for-rent apartments in one
    building. Project amenities include a 2.5-acre park, pocket park, trail improvements along Collier Creek, an
    easement for a future pedestrian bridge across Collier Creek, and a monetary contribution towards
    constructing the bridge.
•   Goodness Village. Approval of Conditional Use Permit Modification to allow supportive housing (Goodness
    Village) associated with a public or quasi-public use (Crosswinds Church). The project is to modify the
    Conditional Use Permit for Crosswinds Church to permanently allow the 28-unit Goodness Village and a
    new, approximately 7,125 square foot community center for residents and staff administrative offices.
•   Casino 580. Approval of a Municipal Code Amendment, Development Code Amendment, Conditional Use
    Permit Modification, Development Agreement, Site Plan Design Review, and Site Plan Design Review
    Modification for the Parkwest Casino 580 Expansion Project and citywide cardroom operations. The
    amended cardroom table fees are expected to generate approximately $695,000 annually from Casino 580
    (which amount will adjust with the Consumer Price Index). This revenue will be used in part to fund two full-
    time positions, one in the Police Department and one in the Community Development Department.
•   Comcast Properties Rezoning and Development Agreement. Approval of an Isabel Neighborhood Specific
    Plan Amendment to change the land use at 3011, 3055, and 3077 Triad Place from Business Park to
    Residential Transition (multifamily residential) and a Development Agreement to vest a land use
    development concept for 450 multifamily housing units, private and common open space, infrastructure
    including a new bicycle lane, establish terms and timing of payments into the Social Opportunity
    Endowment and Community Benefit Funds, alternatives to inclusionary affordable housing requirements,
    and the construction of off-site Class IV bike lane improvements along North Canyons Parkway.
•   Development Code Update and Objective Design Standards. Adoption of a comprehensive update of the
    Livermore Development Code (LDC) to incorporate changes in state housing laws, increase project review
    streamlining, and establish citywide Objective Design Standards applicable to multifamily residential and
    mixed-use residential projects.




                                                                                                              viii
