December 31, 2025

Honorable Mayor, Members of the City Council and
 citizens of the City of Livermore, California:

I am pleased to present the City's Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2025. State law requires that every general-purpose local government publish, within six months of the close of
each fiscal year, a complete set of audited financial statements. This report fulfills that requirement for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 2025.

Management assumes full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of the information contained in this
report, based upon a comprehensive framework of internal control that it has established for this purpose. Because
the cost of internal control should not exceed anticipated benefits, the objective is to provide reasonable, rather
than absolute, assurance that the financial statements are free of any material misstatements.

The data in this report is presented in a manner that is designed to fairly set forth the financial position and results
of operations of the City of Livermore (the City). It contains the disclosures necessary to promote in-depth
understanding of the City's financial affairs and evaluate its financial condition.

The City’s financial statements have been audited by Eide Bailly LLP located in Menlo Park, California. The
independent auditors concluded, based on their audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an
unmodified (or “clean”) opinion that the City of Livermore’s financial statements for the fiscal year (FY) ended June
30, 2025, are fairly presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. The independent
auditor’s report is the first item presented in the financial section of this report.

In addition to the financial audit, each year the City is required to undergo an audit of federal grant expenditures.
That report is commonly referred to as a Single Audit report and is issued as a separate document and is not
included herein. The Single Audit report includes the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards, Findings and
Recommendations, and an auditor's report on the internal control structure and compliance with applicable laws
and regulations.

The provisions of Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement 34, “Basic Financial Statements—
and Management’s Discussion & Analysis—for State and Local Governments” requires that management provide a
narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial statements entitled, “Management
Discussion & Analysis” (MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to complement the MD&A and should be read
in conjunction with the MD&A, which can be found immediately following the report of the independent auditors in
the financial section of the ACFR.




                                                                                                                           i
