                                                                                                 City of Livermore
                                                                                                  Letter of Transmittal
                                                                                                         June 30, 2025


In its November 13, 2025 publication, the Conference Board forecasts that US economic growth will experience slow
growth at year-end related to the 43-day government shutdown and recover at the beginning of 2026 They forecast
that real GDP will grow by 1.5% in 2026 and then increase by approximately 2.0% in 2027.




Although Livermore’s current financial picture is positive, there are plenty of reasons for concern when we look out
further on the financial horizon. The City is on a steady financial course, but still strives to achieve long-term
financial stability, which is linked to adequately funding its long-term liabilities. While General Fund reserves are
currently fully funded, future liabilities, increasing employee costs, and deferred infrastructure maintenance temper
the City’s progress.

The single largest unaddressed financial challenge the City faces is the maintenance and replacement of its
infrastructure. The City is developing a comprehensive infrastructure repair and replacement plan so that adequate
resources are available when needed. In the meantime, the City established two capital reserves in June 2023 –
Existing Asset Maintenance and Repair Reserve and New and Replacement Asset Reserve. As of June 30, 2025, there
was a combined balance of $28.2 million in capital reserves. The City funds capital reserves through year-end
surpluses and, depending on the City’s budget status, annual budget allocations. The FY 2023-25 Budget allocated
approximately $20 million from General Fund resources for capital improvements, representing a significant
investment in facility repairs and replacements, sidewalk repairs, street tree removal and replacement, wall repairs,
and stormwater projects.

Rising pension costs will continue to be a challenge for most public agencies. The City contributes to the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) for its Miscellaneous and Safety Police retirement plans. CalPERS
implemented a 20-year rate amortization and a five-year phase-in effective from fiscal year 2016-17. The City’s
“second tier” pension plan (2% at 60) coupled with the Public Employee Pension Reform Act (PEPRA) will reduce
employee pension costs in the long-term. City staff will continue to monitor CalPERS changes and suggest prudent
strategies to address these increases as the opportunities arise.

The City of Livermore, along with the San Francisco Bay Area and much of California, is in the middle of a
homelessness crisis. The prolonged economic expansion, low interest rates through most of 2022, and housing
shortage led to median home values skyrocketing throughout the Bay Area. As mentioned above, the median home
price for a single-family home in Livermore is approximately $1.25 million on June 30, 2025. Purchasing a median
priced home with 10% down requires approximately $130,000 for a down payment, $36,000 for closing costs, and
approximately $195,000 in annual household income. The average rent in Livermore for a two-bedroom apartment
is approximately $2,600 per month. A household will need an annual average income of $104,000 to afford this
level of rent.




                                                                                                                        vi
