                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                                    Letter of Transmittal
                                                                                                           June 30, 2025




Fund Balance Policy In June 2016, the City Council adopted a resolution updating the Livermore Fund Balance Policy
to maintain the fiscal stability of the organization, to help maintain the City’s credit worthiness, and to provide funds
for economic uncertainties, contingencies, and cash flow requirements. The General Fund Financial Stabilization
Operating Reserve is set at 15 percent of budgeted operating expenditures plus debt service transfers to be used in
a catastrophic event or in a major emergency or in periods of severe fiscal crisis. The General Fund Economic
Uncertainty Reserve is set at 13.5 percent of budgeted operating expenditures plus debt service transfers to be used
during times of severe economic distress such as protracted recessionary periods or other impactful unforeseen
events which greatly diminish the financial ability of the City to deliver core services. Minimum unassigned fund
balance is set at 1.5 percent of the budgeted operating expenditures plus transfers for debt service.

Infrastructure Repair and Replacement Funding As previously noted, Council adopted a resolution creating two
capital reserves for general government-owned facilities and infrastructure to help ensure there is sufficient funding
to address the City’s capital needs – Existing Asset Maintenance and Repair Reserve Fund and the New and
Replacement Asset Reserve Fund.

Debt Management and Disclosure policy The City’s Debt Management and Disclosure Policy is intended to ensure
compliance by the City with all applicable federal and state securities laws and regulations; to achieve the highest
practical credit ratings within the context of the City’s financing needs and financing capabilities; and to establish
maximum limits on the amounts of debt outstanding and the amount of annual debt service the City will consider.
This policy sets a ceiling for the cumulative annual payments related to debt from the General Fund at 7.5 percent of
the previous fiscal year's General Fund revenue.

Timeliness of Financial Reporting Practices The City believes that time is of the essence in the publication of Budget
and Annual Comprehensive Financial Report documents. The budget is adopted before June 30 and loaded into the
financial system on the first day of the new fiscal year. The ACFR publication date is generally within 180 days of the
close of the fiscal year. The City’s major financial documents are available on the web at www.livermoreca.gov.




                                                                                                                       xi
