                                                                                                 City of Livermore
                                                                                                  Letter of Transmittal
                                                                                                         June 30, 2025




GFOA Financial Reporting Certificate of Achievement

The Government Finance Officers Association of the United
States and Canada (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting to the City of
Livermore for its annual comprehensive financial report for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. This was the 36th consecutive
year that the City of Livermore has achieved this prestigious
award. To be awarded a Certificate of Achievement, a
government must publish an easily readable and efficiently
organized annual comprehensive financial report. This report
must satisfy both generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) and applicable legal requirements.

A Certificate of Achievement is valid for a period of one year
only. We believe that our current annual comprehensive
financial report continues to meet the Certificate of
Achievement Program’s requirements, and we are submitting it
to GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.




This report represents the culmination of dedicated efforts by
City staff both inside and outside of the Finance Division. The preparation of this report on a timely basis could not
have been accomplished without the hard work and team effort of the entire financial reporting team. I wish to
thank all departments for their assistance in providing the data necessary to prepare this report. I would like to
express my appreciation and thanks to Ahmad Gharaibeh and his staff at Eide Bailly LLP. Credit is also due to the
Mayor and the City Council members for their unfailing support for maintaining the highest standards of
professionalism in the management of the City’s finances.

Very truly yours,




Tina Olson
Administrative Services Director



                                                                                                                     xii
