                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                Management’s Discussion and Analysis
                                                                                                      June 30, 2025


Government-wide Financial Statements

The government-wide financial statements are designed to provide the reader with a broad overview of the City’s
finances, similar to a private-sector business.

The Statement of Net Position presents information on all the City’s assets, deferred outflows, liabilities, and
deferred inflows with the difference reported as Net Position. Over time, increases or decreases in Net Position may
serve as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of the City is improving or declining.

The Statement of Activities presents information showing how the City’s Net Position changed during the most
recent fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the change
occurs, regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Thus, revenues and expenses are reported in this statement
for some items that will only result in cash flows in future fiscal periods. This is known as the full accrual basis of
accounting.

Both government-wide financial statements distinguish functions of the City that are principally supported by taxes
and intergovernmental revenues (governmental activities) from other functions that are intended to recover all or
most of their costs through user fees and charges (business-type activities). The governmental activities of the City
include the following functions: General Government (city council, city manager, city attorney, city clerk, finance,
human resources), fire, police, public services, community development, economic development, and library. The
business-type activities of the City include airport, water, sewer, and stormwater.

The government-wide financial statements include not only the City itself (known as the primary government) but
also the activities of its legally separate component unit, the Livermore Capital Projects Financing Authority (LCPFA).
Since the City Council acts as the governing board for LCPFA and because this component unit functions as part of
the City government, its activities are blended with those of the primary government. The government-wide
financial statements can be found on pages 23-24 of this report.

Fund Financial Statements

A fund is a grouping of related accounts that is used to maintain control over resources that have been designated
for specific activities or objectives. The City, like other state and local governments, uses fund accounting to ensure
and demonstrate compliance with finance-related legal requirements. All the funds of the City can be divided into
three categories: governmental funds, proprietary funds and fiduciary funds.

Governmental Funds
Governmental funds are used to account for essentially the same functions reported as governmental activities in
the government-wide financial statements. However, unlike the government-wide financial statements,
governmental fund financial statements focus on near-term inflows and outflows of spendable resources, as well as
on balances of spendable resources available at the end of the fiscal year. This information may be useful in
evaluating the City’s near-term financial requirements. The basis of accounting in governmental funds is known as
the modified accrual basis.




                                                                                                                          6
