                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                Management’s Discussion and Analysis
                                                                                                      June 30, 2025


The largest portion of the City’s net position ($502.2 million or 63.3%) reflects its investment in capital assets (e.g.,
land, buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles, and infrastructure), less any related outstanding debt that was used
to acquire those assets. The City uses these capital assets to provide a variety of services to its residents and
businesses. Accordingly, these assets are not available for future spending. Although the City’s investment in
capital assets is reported net of related debt, it should be noted that the resources used to repay this debt must be
provided from other sources, since the City is unlikely to use the capital assets themselves to liquidate these
liabilities.

An additional portion of the City’s net position ($212.9 million or 26.8%) represents resources that may be used only
for specified capital projects, special revenue programs, or landscape and maintenance. The restrictions on these
funds were placed there by outside agencies and are not subject to change by the City.

At the end of FY 2024-25, except for unrestricted net position, the City is able to report positive balances in all
reported categories of net position, both for the government as a whole, as well as for its separate business-type
activities. The unrestricted category for governmental activities had a deficit balance of $71.8 million as of the end of
FY 2024-25. The deficit is caused primarily by $103.7 million in the unfunded pension liabilities and $20.4 million in
postemployment liabilities including the related deferred inflows and outflows of resources. The unfunded net
pension liabilities and net OPEB liabilities will be funded annually in accordance with actuarially determined
contribution rates. The governmental activities unrestricted net position, excluding the effects of pension and OPEB
liabilities, is $52.3 million and may be used to meet the City’s ongoing obligations.

Overall, the City’s net position increased by $68.8 million from $724.3 million in FY 2023-24 to $793.1 million in FY
2024-25. The reasons for this overall increase are discussed in the following sections for governmental activities and
business-type activities.




                                                                                                                        9
