                                                                                              City of Livermore
                                                                             Management’s Discussion and Analysis
                                                                                                   June 30, 2025


Sewer Fund

The Sewer Enterprise is responsible for the operation, maintenance, and periodic replacement of the City’s sewer,
collection system, wastewater treatment, and recycled water production systems. It operates and maintains the
Livermore Water Reclamation Plant, which provides wastewater treatment and disposal, and produces recycled
water for landscape irrigation and other uses. The Plant currently treats approximately 5.6 million gallons of
wastewater each day from throughout the Livermore area.

The Sewer Fund’s net operating income was $3.2 million in FY 2024-25 compared to $4.7 million in FY 2023-24.
Operating revenues were $1.8 million higher in FY 2024-25, primarily due to an increase in sewer rates. Revenue is
expected to continue to increase as the City Council approved a comparable rate increase for the next fiscal year.
Operating expenses of $29.6 million experienced a 12.5% increase from $26.3 million in FY 2023-24 due to increases
in cost of sales, salaries and benefits, and contracted services. The contracted services expense increase of $2.7
million was due to a one-time payment to LAVWMA for the replacement of a pipeline segment.

Nonoperating revenues (expenses) decreased by $3.1 million due to year end market value adjustment of the City’s
investments ($1.3 increase) and change in value in the JPA-LAVWMA investment ($4.4 million decrease). LAVWMA is
a joint venture that operates the export pipeline connecting with the East Bay Discharges Authority’s systems and
discharges treated wastewater into San Francisco Bay.

Water Fund

The Water Enterprise purchases potable water from water wholesaler Zone 7 Water Agency and then distributes the
water to customers in the Livermore Municipal Water service area. The City’s municipal water service area has a
combined residential and commercial customer base of approximately 10,700 water accounts. Each water bill
consists of a flat rate City meter service charge based on the size of meter that is located at the property (fixed
charge), a City consumption charge for water used at the property (variable charge), and pass-through of wholesale
water charges.

Water operating revenue increased by 9.2% from $18.4 million to $20.1 million. The combined annual Livermore
Municipal Water and Zone 7 rate increase was approximately 3%.

Operating expenses were $3.4 million higher compared to FY 2023-24, primarily due to increases in the purchase of
water from Zone 7 of $1.0 million and increased repair and maintenance costs of $1.7 million. Net nonoperating
revenues (expenses) increased by $0.9 million due to increased investment income.




                                                                                                                    18
