                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                          June 30, 2025


    Sewer Fund – Established to account for operations of the wastewater disposal plant, the export pipeline, impact
    fees collected for sewer connections, and urban runoff fees.

    Water Fund – Established to account for the operations of the municipal water service. Services are rendered on
    a user charge basis and impact fees are collected for future water storage needs.

The City also reports the following fund types:

Internal Service Funds – These funds are used to account for the financing of services and supplies provided by one
City department to another on a cost-reimbursement basis. The City operates the Liability Insurance Reserve Fund,
Workers Compensation Fund, Fleet and Equipment Services Fund, Information Technology Fund, and Facilities
Rehabilitation Projects Fund.

Fiduciary Funds – These funds are used to account for assets held by the City as an agent for various functions. The
financial activities of these funds are excluded from the City-wide financial statements but are presented in separate
Fiduciary Fund financial statements. The City has the following three types of fiduciary funds:

    Successor Agency to the Livermore Redevelopment Agency Private Purpose Trust Fund – Established for the
    assets received from the City’s former redevelopment agency in order to liquidate its enforceable obligations,
    pursuant to Assembly Bill X1 26 which dissolved redevelopment agencies in California as of January 31, 2012.
    Funds received from the county to pay off enforceable obligations are held in this fund.

    Custodial Funds – Established to account for assets held by the City in a purely custodial capacity. Custodial funds
    typically involve only the receipt, temporary investment, and remittance of fiduciary resources to individuals,
    private organizations, or other governments. Custodial Funds account for activities carried out exclusively for the
    benefit of that outside of the City but not administered through other fiduciary trusts or equivalent arrangements
    such as assessments for payments of certain conduit debt and other custodial activities as well as custodial
    activities related to the Livermore Pleasanton Fire District, JPA.

Basis of Accounting and Measurement Focus

The accounting and financial reporting treatment is determined by the applicable measurement focus and basis of
accounting. Measurement focus indicates the type of resources being measured such as current financial resources or
economic resources. The basis of accounting indicates the timing of transactions or events for recognition in the
financial statements.

The government-wide financial statements are reported using the economic resources measurement focus and the full
accrual basis of accounting. Revenues are recorded when earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are
incurred, regardless of when the related cash flows take place. Property taxes are recognized as revenues in the year
for which they are levied. Grants and similar items are recognized as revenue as soon as all eligibility requirements
imposed by the provider have been met.




                                                                                                                       39
