                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                          June 30, 2025


The City monitors changes in circumstances that would require a remeasurement of its lease, and will remeasure the
lease receivable and deferred inflows of resources if certain changes occur that are expected to significantly affect
the amount of the lease receivable.

The City has several lease and subscription arrangements accounted for under GASB No. 87, Leases and GASB No.
96, Subscriptions Based Information Technology Arrangements. At the commencement of a subscription based
information technology arrangement (SBITA) or lease arrangement, the City initially measures the liability at the
present value of payments expected to be made during the term. Subsequently, the liability is reduced by the
principal portion of payments made. The subscription or leased asset is initially measured as the initial amount of
the subscription liability, adjusted for subscription payments made at or before the subscription commencement
date, plus certain initial direct costs. Subsequently, the subscription asset is amortized on a straight‐line basis over
its useful life. Key estimates and judgments include how the City determines (1) the discount rate it uses to discount
the expected payments to present value, (2) subscription term. Lease receipts included in the measurement of the
lease receivable is composed of fixed payments from the lessee. The City monitors changes in circumstances that
would require a remeasurement of its subscription and will remeasure the lease if certain changes occur that are
expected to significantly affect the amount of the subscription.

Subscription and leased assets are reported with other capital assets and liabilities are reported with long-term debt
on the statement of net position.

Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources

In addition to assets, the statement of net position reports a separate section for deferred outflows of resources. This
separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of net assets that
applies to future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an outflow of resources (expense/expenditure) until then.

In addition to liabilities, the statement of net position or governmental fund balance sheet reports a separate section
for deferred inflows of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents
an acquisition of net assets that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources
(revenue) until that time.

Pensions and Other Postemployment Benefits

For purposes of measuring the net pension and OPEB liabilities and deferred outflows/inflows of resources related
to pensions, and pension expense, information about the fiduciary net position of the City of Livermore’s California
Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) pension and Public Agency Retirement System (PARS) plans (Plans)
and additions to/deductions from the Plans’ fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they
are reported by CalPERS and PARS. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee
contributions) are recognized when due and payable in accordance with the benefit terms.




                                                                                                                      42
