                                                                                                    City of Livermore
                                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                           June 30, 2025


Note 1 -    Significant Accounting Policies

The City of Livermore was incorporated on April 1, 1876. The City operates under the Council-Manager form of
government and provides the following services: public safety (police and fire), highways and streets, sewer, water,
public improvements, planning and zoning, general administration services and housing services.

The accounting policies of the City conform with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America as applicable to governments. The following is a summary of these policies:

Reporting Entity

The accompanying basic financial statements present the financial activity of the City, which is the primary government
presented, along with the financial activities of its component units, which are entities for which the City is financially
accountable. Although they are separate legal entities, blended component units are in substance part of the City’s
operations and are reported as an integral part of the City’s financial statements. The City’s blended component unit is
described below.

Component Units Included in the Reporting Entity

The Livermore Capital Projects Financing Authority (LCPFA) provides financing assistance to the City. The Authority is
controlled by the City and has the same governing body as the City, which also performs all accounting and
administrative functions for the Authority. Separate financial statements are not issued for the LCPFA.

Basis of Presentation

The City’s basic financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is the acknowledged standard setting
body for establishing accounting and financial reporting standards followed by governmental entities in the United
States of America.

These Standards require that the financial statements described below be presented.

Government-wide Statements The Statement of Net Position and the Statement of Activities display information
about the primary government (the City) and its component units. These statements include the financial activities
of the overall City government, except for fiduciary activities. Eliminations have been made to minimize the double
counting of internal activities. These statements distinguish between the governmental and business-type activities
of the City. Governmental activities generally are financed through taxes, intergovernmental revenues, and other
non-exchange transactions. Business-type activities are financed in whole or in part by fees charged to external
parties.

The Statement of Activities presents a comparison between direct expenses and program revenues for each
segment of the business-type activities of the City and for each function of the City’s governmental activities.

Direct expenses are those that are specifically associated with a program or function and, therefore, are clearly
identifiable to a particular function. Certain indirect costs are included in program expenses reported for individual
functions and activities.
                                                                                                                     37
