                                                                                                  City of Livermore
                                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                         June 30, 2025


Program revenues include (a) charges paid by the recipients of goods or services offered by the programs, (b) grants
and contributions that are restricted to meeting the operational needs of a particular program and (c) fees, grants
and contributions that are restricted to financing the acquisition or construction of capital assets. Revenues that are
not classified as program revenues, including all taxes, are presented as general revenues.

Fund Financial Statements The fund financial statements provide information about the City's funds, including
fiduciary funds and blended component units. Separate statements for each fund category—governmental,
proprietary, and fiduciary—are presented. The emphasis of fund financial statements is on major individual
governmental and enterprise funds, each of which is displayed in a separate column. All remaining governmental
and enterprise funds are aggregated and reported as non-major funds.

Proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues and expenses from non-operating items. Operating revenues and
expenses generally result from exchange transactions associated with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing
operations. Exchange transactions are those in which each party receives and gives up essentially equal values. The
principal operating revenues of the City’s enterprise funds, and internal service funds are charges to customers for
sales and services. Operating expenses for enterprise funds and internal service funds include the cost of sales and
services, administrative expenses, and depreciation of capital assets. All revenues and expenses not meeting this
definition are reported as non-operating revenues and expenses. Non-operating revenues, such as subsidies and
investment earnings, result from non-exchange transactions or ancillary activities.

Major Funds

The City’s major governmental and business-type funds are identified and presented separately in the fund financial
statements. All other funds, called non-major funds, are combined, and reported in a single column, regardless of their
fund-type.

Major funds are defined as funds that have either assets, liabilities, revenues, or expenditures/expenses equal to ten
percent of their fund-type total and five percent of the grand total. The General Fund is always a major fund. The City
may also select other funds it believes should be presented as major funds.

The City reported the following major governmental funds in the accompanying financial statements:

    General Fund – The general operating fund of the City. It is used to account for all financial resources except those
    required to be accounted for in another fund.

    Low Income Housing Special Revenue Fund – Established to account for the receipt and disbursement of in-lieu low-
    income housing impact fees collected from developers.

The City reported the following business-type funds as major funds in the accompanying financial statements.

    Airport Fund – Established to account for the operations of the Livermore Municipal Airport.

    Stormwater Fund – Established to account for operations of the storm water operations and impact fees
    collected for storm drain infrastructure.


                                                                                                                      38
