                                                                                                 City of Livermore
                                                                                        Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                        June 30, 2025


General Fund

The Restricted Pension 115 Trust Reserve and the Committed General Fund Financial Stabilization Operating Reserve
combine to meet the minimum funding level is 15% of operating expenditures plus debt service transfers to be used
in a catastrophic event or in a major emergency or in periods of severe fiscal crisis. The Unassigned General Fund
Economic Uncertainty Reserve minimum funding level is 13.5% of operating expenditures plus debt service transfers
to be used during times of severe economic distress such as protracted recessionary periods. State raids on local
resources, or other impactful unforeseen events which greatly diminish the financial ability of the City to deliver
core services. The Unassigned General Fund balance minimum funding level is 1.5% of operating expenditures plus
outgoing debt service transfers.

Enterprise Funds

The Airport and Water Funds’ unrestricted net position minimum balance is 12.5% (or 45 days’ worth of working
capital) and 33% (or 120 days’ worth of working capital) of operating expenditures plus debt service requirements
respectively. The Sewer Fund is recommended to maintain an unrestricted Net Position minimum balance of 50% of
their operating budget plus debt service requirements.

Internal Service Funds

Liability Insurance and Workers Compensation Funds are recommended to fully fund actuarially determined claim
obligations at a minimum at the seventy percent (70%) confidence level. The City will strive to fully fund actuarially
determined claim obligations at the 90% confidence level.

The Fleet Services, Information Technology and Facilities Rehabilitation Funds are recommended to keep 12.5% of
operating expenses as minimum unrestricted net position balance.


Note 11 - Pension Plans

A. Social Security/ Public Agency Retirement Systems (PARS)

The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA) mandates that public sector employees who are not
members of their employer’s existing retirement system as of January 1, 1992 be covered by either Social Security or
an alternative plan. The City’s part-time, seasonal, and temporary employees are not covered under Social Security.
The City has an agreement with the Public Agency Retirement System (PARS) to provide an alternative retirement
system for employees not eligible for the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) Pension Plan
and adopted the PARS 457 Trust including the PARS Section 457 FICA Alternative Retirement Plan.

B. California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) Pension Plans

All public employees meeting CalPERS membership requirements must participate in pension plans offered by
California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS).



                                                                                                                     68
