                                                                                                 City of Livermore
                                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements
                                                                                                          June 30, 2025


Funding Policy and Actuarial Assumptions

The actuarially determined contribution (ADC) to the OPEB plan was determined as part of a June 30, 2023 actuarial
valuation using the entry age normal actuarial cost method. This is a projected benefit cost method, which takes
into account those benefits that are expected to be earned in the future as well as those already accrued. The
actuarial assumptions included (a) 6.25% investment rate of return, (b) 2.75% projected annual salary increase, and
(c) 2.50% general inflation rate and (d) health inflation decreases ranging from 3.45%-8.5%. The actuarial methods
and assumptions used include techniques that smooth the effects of short-term volatility in actuarial accrued
liabilities and the actuarial value of assets. Actuarial calculations reflect a long-term perspective and actuarial
valuations involve estimates of the value of reported amounts and assumptions about the probability of events far
into the future. Actuarially determined amounts are subject to revision at least biannually as results are compared
to past expectations and new estimates are made about the future.

In accordance with the City’s budget, the actuarially determined contribution (ADC) is to be funded throughout the
year as a percentage of payroll. During fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the City joined the Public Agencies Post-
Retirement Health Care Plan, a multiple employer trust administered by Public Agency Retirement Services (PARS).
During current fiscal year, the City made $4,305,655 in the form of pay-as-you-go payments. This trust is not
considered a component unit by the City and has been excluded from these financial statements. Separately issued
financial statements for PARS may be obtained from PARS at 4350 Von Karman Ave., Suite 200, Newport Beach, CA
92660.

OPEB Trust Fund

Plan Administration

The City is the plan administrator. The Public Agency Retirement Services (PARS) administers the trust for the City’s
retiree healthcare benefit plan – an agent multiple-employer defined benefit OPEB plan that provides healthcare
benefits for eligible general and public safety employees of the City.

                                                                      Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024
       Plan Type                                                          Agent Multiple Employer
       OPEB Trust                                                                    Yes
       Special Funding Situation                                                     No
       Nonemployer Contributing Entity                                               No

Plan Membership

As of June 30, 2024, the most recent valuation date, membership in the plan consisted of the following:

                                                                      Number of Covered Employees
       Retirees and beneficiaries receivng benefits                              325
       Terminated plan members entitled to
          but not yet receiving benefits                                             56
       Active plan members                                                          118
                                                                                    499


                                                                                                                    77
