                                                                                              City of Livermore
                                                                                   Non-Major Governmental Funds
                                                                                                   June 30, 2025


Special Revenue Funds are used to account for City revenues from sources that, by law or administrative action, are
designated to finance particular functions or activities of government. The individual special revenue funds are as
follows:

       Housing Successor Agency
       Established to account for assets and liabilities assumed by the City from the former Redevelopment
       Agency’s Low and Moderate Income Housing Fund.

       Housing and Community Assistance
       Established to account for outside resources used for Housing and Human Service programs that can be
       used to create and expand affordable housing opportunities.

       Horizons
       Established to account for the receipt of grant funds from the Federal Department of Health and Human
       Services (passed through the Alameda County Probation Department and the Alameda County Health Care
       Services Agency) for the youth diversion program.

       Solid Waste Management
       Established to account for funds received from waste hauler franchise fees and Alameda County Waste
       Management Authority used to administer and participate in City/County planning programs to ensure
       compliance with the California Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, AB 939.

       Maintenance District
       Established to account for the receipt and disbursement of Landscape and Maintenance District fees
       collected from developers and homeowners.

       City Street Sweeping
       Established to administer funds received through solid waste collection fees.

       Park Fee
       Established to administer the AB1600 funds received from developers to construct new parks in the City.

       Other Special Revenue Funds
       Established to account for City programs including the Public Art In-Lieu Fee Program, Altamont Open Space
       Program, and Brownfield Program.

       PEG
       Established to account for Public, Educational, and Government (PEG) Access funds received from local cable
       TV franchises used for capital related items for community cable programming.

       Alameda County Transportation Funds
       Established to account for funds received from the Alameda County Transportation Commission including
       Measure B funds, Measure F funds (Vehicle Registration Fees), and project-specific grant funds which
       provide funding for street maintenance and improvement programs, pedestrian programs, and
       transportation-related capital projects.

                                                                                                                 101
