                                                                                                   City of Livermore
                                                                                        Non-Major Governmental Funds
                                                                                                        June 30, 2025


        Gas Tax
        Established to account for revenue apportioned to the City from State Street & Highways Codes 2103, 2105,
        2106, and 2107, and State Department of Transportation Proposition 1B funds which are expended for
        construction and maintenance of City streets.

        Host Community Impact Fee
        Established to account for the collection of Host Community Impact Fees from the Altamont and Vasco Road
        Landfills which are restricted for the use of promoting the arts in Livermore.

        Other Impact Fee Special Revenue Fund
        Established to account for other City impact fees including the Downtown Revitalization Impact Fee, Human
        Services Facilities Impact Fees, Parking Space Impact Fees, Storm Drain Impact Fees, and Solid Waste and
        Recycling Impact Fees to be expended according to their respective City ordinances.

        Tri-Valley Transportation Council (TVTC) 20% Fee
        Established to account for receipts of Tri-Valley Transportation Council fees for specific capital improvement
        projects.

        Other Local, State, and Federal Grants Special Revenue Fund
        Established to account for various grants from local agencies, the State of California, and the Federal
        Government to be expended for a specific program, activity or facility.

Debt Service Funds are used to account for the payment of principal and interest on city-wide governmental debt.

        2020 COP
        Series A were issued to defease 2014 COP Series A. Series B were issued to defease LCPFA 2011 COP and
        the 2014 COP Series B.

        2022 COPS
        2022 COPS were issued to provide financing for the design and construction of a parking garage to provide
        adequate parking for all existing and new development and other improvements of the City.

Capital Projects Funds are used to account for and report financial resources that are restricted, committed or
assigned to expenditures for capital outlays, including the acquisition or construction of capital facilities and other
capital assets.

        Traffic Impact Fee
        Established to account for traffic impact fees collected from developers for the purpose of constructing or
        providing circulation system improvements.

        2022 COPS Construction Capital Fund
        Established to account for the receipt and disbursement of the design and construction of a parking garage
        to provide adequate parking for all existing and new development and other improvements of the City.


                                                                                                                      102
